










Gold light dappling across a valley that seems to reach on forever. 
We ease back, revealing more - taking in the visual feast - finally 
discovering a seated figure facing out over the valley - a DOG at 
his feet. 


himself. As we watch. him a moment - SOUNDS become prominent - 
whistle of the wind through the grass - a bird's wings as it takes 
flight - a tree branch creaking under its own weight. And as he sits 
there, listening, we see the last rays of sunlight slip from the 
day. 












30's, driving, on the phone. 



I don't wear lost well - wait, wait I'm losing you...





phone. 






the night.. 


is Virgil, ICE SKATING - hockey stick in hand - moving about the 
rink with an imaginary puck. 







his hands up in the air like he just scored. 


RESORT 1.4 miles. 



unless you hear from Atlanta. And fax me the 
designs - I want to tinker with them a bit more
... I'm going to rest - bye - I'll see you in a week.



about to pull out - that love song still blaring. 










she's exhausted - and starts towards the entrance. 




annoyingly fit. 



stairmasters, a spa, yoga, aerobics, spin classes...




Do you have anything that just involves lying down?













closed door - about to grab a magazine when she hears from behind 
the door: 






ecstasy. 








I've got someone waiting.



SUSAN, Bette Midler type, backing out of the room. 







Amy, you out there? - c'mon in.











ordered - every vial, bottle, towel has its exact spot. 



get ready - hop up on the table.



sweats and lies on the table, face down - pulling the sheet to cover 
herself. 








Now I'm going to start working somewhat deep -
you let me know if you want anything deeper.




all you get is shallow.







aria "Mira, 0 Norma" from Bellini's Norma. 







missed the town completely.




you could still miss the town completely.





his hands gracefully LENGTHENING and STRETCHING her muscles. 



















that causes Amy to release a very deep guttural sound. 










- not caressing - but molding - like a sculptor. 


- takes a step back. 









It's just things have kinda built up, 
I don't know why I'm crying.. look, 
this is embarrassing...




you obviously needed it. 
We should stop for today.




You always make the girls cry.




I'm going to go now - unless you'd like me to stay.











starts a slow comforting massage - we see Amy visibly relax. 



invaded your entire body?











- her eyes dreamily open. 








wearing her sweats - pulling on her sneakers. 
















corner. She chases after hi~n into the reception area where she sees 
him exiting the door and moving of f down the driveway. 






to go after him - fighting her way through a large tour group just 
checking in. 




exiting the building - trying not to slip on the ice as she, hurries 
after him - trying to get close enough to call out. 



















didn't want to wake you.




I saw you last night, coming in. 
Pretty mean slapshot. 
You play on some team or something?








seeing a game. But I loved to skate 
as a kid - unfortunately I have two left feet.








cocked, shifts her weight on one foot, moving slightly closer. 










the doors pop open revealing CARL KIPLING, black, a hundred years 
old. Virgil turns as a few kids pile off the bus.. 



Hey Tommy, my man.



full of young school kids. Seems odd. 









blubbering like that - I was just in a weird place.








thank- you. For what you did.








it great - didn't freak or anything.






















something out. 






taps his way to the bus. 
















- no need to overdo it. Bye now.



the bus - amongst "Hey Virgil's" from the school kids and Ca-chunk 
the doors close - the Yellow Bus steaming off - past Amy, as she 
stares at Virgil in the front seat - about to wave to him - then 
realizing he wouldn't see. 


comes out - Virgil's - and waves good-bye. 




at the edge of surrounding woods. 


turns, grazes his hand across a tree out front - and starts towards 
his home. 


hand - then raps on it. 















more like sleeping eye dog.



REMOTE CONTROL placed just so. Click - a Game Show pops on. 



followed me out of the building.









SCHEDULE" - it's completely WHITE - all in BRAILLE. 



she watches too many horror movies.



putting a just made dinner carefully onto a plate. 



are the kids today?



BAP - he hits the channel changer and the game comes on. 






refrigerator where it VELCRO sticks to an exact spot. 



















door open and he's got a glass. Back to the fridge, he grabs a coke. 



at 3 o'clock - rice is at...




and news at 11.



table (facing away from the TV). 








for the New York Rangers.



finds his fork. Jennie moves to a counter where a pile of school 
books sit. 














and moves to the door. 
















she actually thought I could




soft like a breeze through







comes from the TV. She has the remote, mindlessly switching channels 
- not staying on one for more than a second or two. 


Stooges - Moe poking Curly in the eye - click - click - click. 


She picks it up, holds it against her eyes and ties it tight around 
her head. 


room - not so bad - WHAM - right into a side table. Shit that hurts! 
Grabbing her leg, she hops - hits a lamp. 






hears: 



















you I was blind it wasn't fair.




I just got out of the shower - give me 
a minute to get changed?











actually the whole town's my neighborhood 
-- and since you've never been to our
illustrious village, I thought maybe we could 
go into town - see what we see.








. 












streetside cafe. Virgil, holding Amy's arm as they walk down the 
street. 





much - but a good guy. Three steps down is Carlson's hardware
- he's got a laugh like a donkey - we sometimes listen to games
together - he's a Devil's fan. And just up ahead should be Grady's 
junk shop - he calls it "antiques"...
Smells like junk. I'd hate to see what it looks like
. 














any braille book I want.





anything he can get his hands on...




groceries home - your ice cream's melting.










My family figured it would be a 
good place for me to grow up. 
Tell me what you see.




town - genuine lines, good use of space. 
To be honest I'd find a better balance 
to a lot of these buildings. But that's me.








enough alone. Art school in college - 
I made the arms for the Venus DeMilo. 







the Mona Lisa has this captivating smile
and David doesn't wear a fig leaf.








but I read about things, then make an
image up here -- (points to his head)
--that works for me.



Amy. 



We should turn back.




What's out there?











building off to the side...




It had a fire so they shut it down. (Amy laughs)
Honest to God.






a field with an interesting configuration of trees.











like a woman dancing with two lovers, trying 
to decide which one she loves.










gave me - "Dancing trees. - I like that.


















moves his way into the center of the room - stands where the 
moonlight from a high window hits the floor. Water runs down the 
outside glass, causing the light to ripple across him. The room is 
empty - almost surreal. 

























contours of everything, gives life to 
a room I can't see.



hears. 



walls on every side. On the right, on the 
drainpipe, it's drumming with a deeper, 
steadier sound - - like a timpani - echoing 
across the room - tells me the room is large 
- open. You feel it - in your chest? On the left, 
the rain says... (he listens)
...a fire escape, with it's own rhythm 
- ping - ping. Then listen - there...










looks like - what it becomes. 
Come here.



turns her to the sound. 



everything but that sound - 
do you hear it?



turning - no in unison with Virgil's 












percussive symphony, isn't it?






alive. But only one thing at a time. But when it's raining,
I feel everything at once. Sometimes, I wish it could 
rain inside rain all around us.













It means to share an empathy. 
Been a long time since I felt that.



watches him - fascinated by him - then shivers slightly. 







through me - can't explain it - a good thing.



he can't see it. She moves close, her 
hand reaching out and taking his. 



I feel - makes me smile.



face. 










reveal Virgil making his way into work. 



you'd never get up on my table again.








for a complete nervous breakdown.







slowly we hear opera play quietly in the background. 



sensual about how he works her muscles. Amy speaks to him in low 
tones - in a state of complete relaxation. 







you're blind and they act surprised. "You're blind? Reallv? 
I didn't know - you hide it so well." And then they wave their
hand in front of your face just to make sure.





the oil making her skin glisten. Amy moves her head slightly with 
his touch. She lets out a small breath of air. 








pigmentosa thrown in for good measure. 
This area needs to loosen up.










emit sonar all the time. I don't have a sixth sense,
I just don't have the fifth one. I can't hear things in 
Vermont, can't smell if you're mad at me, and, no 
- I don't know Helen Keller, Ray Charles or Stevie Wonder.













muscle. It's clear he's enjoying this as much as she is. 






sensitive spot. 











more enjoyable than others.



the movement - both of them heating to the moment. Both their 
breaths quickening. 

















all two hundred pounds. Sorry - I felt like we 
were just getting started.



her. For a moment she watches him - his head turned towards her - 
but not seeing. Then she slowly pulls the sheet up covering herself. 



well - love to do it again.













large women in neon stretch workout clothes - Amy tries to avoid the 
view - a thought - and she shuts her eyes as she continues her 
exercise. 












putting it in the pan - sizzling as it hits. Vegetables and a box of 
pasta are arranged on the countertop. Sophie watches the 
proceedings. 











I'm really sorry - an emergency came up - 
they're dragging me back to New York.








could go down the drain. I'll deal with it quick - 
I'd like to come back.







pan - and promptly burns his hand. 






sending it across the room. He turns - thrusts his hand under the 
sink - turning on the cold water. 















sits in front of it - drawing on a sketch pad. The office is sparse, 
functional. A few DRAFTSMEN can be seen in the background through a 
glass partition. 



just need some time to figure out what.



phone. The voice on the other end is JACK FALK - their would be 
employer. Their assistant BETSY ERNST, early 20's, sits in the 
corner, taking notes. 











hangs up. 











got him hooked, you've got your second chance.






trees - we were going to get rid of them 
- let's incorporate them into the design 
use what's natural about the location. 


back from Pinecrest, I came up with a new 
addition - add some life to that place.






the three headed monster off a few days ago 
and got back Mary Poppins in return.















So - spill the beans.




smart, funny, blind...


Like tap-tap, white cane blind? Come on 
Amy - I mean, I know you like 
challenges, hell you married me - but...









of my business anymore - but a blind
guy? If you're lonely - in my. opinion 
-- get a puppy.























CONGENITAL BLINDNESS - a CLICK and a web page for the AMERICAN 
BRAILLE INSTITUTE comes up. 


the proposed building next to her - two giant Magnolia trees have 
been incorporated into the design. As we watch her search on the 
computer we move over her shoulder to see in the corner of her plans 
- a sketch of the intertwined "dancing trees" and the Firehouse. 









up something here.



what she's doing. Amy looks up at her - sees Betsy's look. 



about what's wrong with him.













with Duncan on this one.





a problem a few years back with severe 
cataracts. Do you have any idea what 
you're getting into?






I mean really listened?









life with a man who has the emotional 
content of a soap dish. The only time I 
saw him cry was doing our tax return three 
years ago.


long, long time I feel like I can breathe again. 
Just the way he touches me I know I found 
someone I can connect with.








me with a simple touch. He listens to my every 
word as if it's the only sound on the planet - 
I feel like even though he can't see me, he knows 
everything about me. He just moves me - does that 
sound crazy.









fast across the ice enjoying the speed - the wind using his hockey 
stick as a guide - he nears the edge of pond - feels it with the 
stick and slams to a stop. 


starts skating again - passing AMY standing on the snow covered 
bank. 




seen on his face. He skates in an arc coming back past Amy. 











Didn't mean to scare you.
















couldn't find you at the spa - took
a chance you'd be here. You're very good.




- wanted me to play pro one day. 
How do you like my pond?








blue silk - you know blue?








a bowl - surrounded by white 
jacketed sentries of trees on 
the horizon, protecting it from 
the outside world.












don't know what it that's OK I liked 
the rest of picture. 






















forward and takes hold of it. 



I used to do this with Jennie when we were kids.



apprehensive at first then starts to enjoy the movement - the 
sensation - both of them laughing out loud. 


pulled by Virgil. As he picks up speed we hear Amy scream in 
delight. 






loses her nerve - and balance - and lets go of the stick and goes 
flying into an embankment. The momentum carries Virgil off down the 
ice - both of them laughing hysterically. 











- I'll come to you - just keep talking.

















art school - a little aimless - and I met
this guy -. an architect - opened up a new 
world to me. I liked the structure the 
control - finding problems, coming up with 
solutions - when I graduated - we started 
a company together - on impulse got married
- which was crazy - divorced a year ago - 
but we're still partners.. which must seem
even crazier.



the pond and into her. 



A patented move.















right, and there's this very sexy thing 
I do with my eyes - then realize none of 
it matters to you.




Tell me what you look like.











down the contours of her cheek, her eyelids, the shape of her lips - 
Amy moving with the touch, the sensuality of it - and as he 
continues - Amy's hand reaches up - touching his face - Virgil 
smiles. 



you are very beautiful.




I could describe.



just experience his touch - his exploring. 


discovering each other - Amy leans forward, her eyes still closed, 
finding his mouth - grazing his lips with her own - softly, gently, 
then they fold into each other's arms locked into a warm, deep kiss. 




bodies. A fire burns in the background. In flowing CUTS we see them 
make love: 


lifts his head - then kisses each of his closed eyelids in rhythm 
with Virgil's movements. 


Virgil would - moving faster now - in total rhythm - shuddering in 
mutual release -- and she collapses on top of him - a deep breath 
and she rolls over - cuddles into his arm. 








hysterically together as Virgil wraps her up in his arms - holding 
her tightly. 






background. Amy in Virgil's robe, pulls a juice container out of the 
fridge - pours herself a glass, putting the juice on the counter as 
she walks into the living room - taking in the sparseness of his 
surroundings. 


minute bumps. Amy pulls up a chair, sits - and flips through the 
book, running her hand across the pages - trying to understand his 
world. 




the chair aside then moves to a series of pictures on the wall: 


his mother and father. Then another picture next to it - Virgil in 
his skates and Jennie older - no father - Sophie at their feet. 


front porch - his arms wrapped around his sister like he's never 
going to let go. 















And you are..?









it back in the fridge - just so. 



picking up a few things before 
school - and I thought you might like some...





Amy sees the fruit on the counter - impressed. 









I know, thanks.







chair Amy moved - knocking into a lamp sending it to the ground. 
Jennie immediately rushes over. 













Amy - don't change anything - 
it's too dangerous
















- leave me alone!



place. A glance to Amy and she picks it up - quietly moves it back 
to it's rightful spot. 



there's dinner in the freezer - left corner.









awkwardness. 















Welcome to my world.
We hold on Amy - taking this in: 




mingle about - drinks in hand - some dance on a floor set up over 
the aerobics area. Music plays in the background. 


at a table off to the side - putting his food in front of him. 



Chicken's at three - salad at seven - 
vegetables at ten.









They do this every weekend?




come back.





Gershwin - makes you want to...



uncomfortableness. 












raising it to his mouth - both we and Amy now see it's a large pat 
of butter. Too late - it's in his mouth. 


surreptitiously swallows it. Then realizes Amy saw him. 



What do you say we dance?



















lively. Amy stops: 










beat - in perfect rhythm but his moves are his own, something we've 
never seen before - uninhibited, wild - a little funny, but also 
there's something sensual in his abandonment. 


himself. People even clear back a little to give him some room - 
however he moves about the floor easily - somehow sensing where the 
other couples are. 


with each other - for a second shutting out the world and it's just 
them, the music and their movement. 


Virgil turns to Amy and she applauds Virgil's wild moves 


bow. Spins back again - a step back and: 


spilling on top of him. Amy, can't help but laugh, rushes to him. 






up into an embrace and as they kiss amidst sauce and salad dressing 
- we see: 







his cataracts - you said he had a problem. 
How is he now? 







top, heavy sweat, on a stationary bicycle - working out. Amy next to 
him on a treadmill - trying to keep up as Caroline from the front 
desk comes and hands her something. 














this morning - her father had these 
severe cataracts...









Aaron - the guy's the leading eye surgeon
on the eastern seaboard - he's been working 
with techniques - I don't know all the jargon 
- but I spoke to him earlier on the phone 
at the Institute...











back - he'd love to get a look at your eyes 
- he thinks maybe, mavbe - there might be a 
chance of reversal.






that says it's help the handicapped week.












here Amy - there is no goddamned problem.



to the side, and makes his way out of the gym. 




shower. 






the lockers - finding his - he tugs it open - pulls off his shirt 
and throws it in. He takes a breath, settles himself - then SLAMS 
the locker door shut. 




Jennie helps the last of the kids into her mother's car - she looks 
up to see Amy across the street. 









I could -- about Virgil.








understand. You see I spoke to a doctor 
who's apparently doing breakthrough 
work on cataracts -










and there was even a remote possibility 
I could see - I'd jump at it.




accepted - you'd just want to change 
it without even thinking about it? 


Virgil has everything he needs.




be falling over things for the rest 
of his life. Look, I see...





the first eight years of his life having 
his eyes prodded, pierced and poked by 
doctors, faith healers, spiritualists, 
shamans and medicine men. My father had them 
lined up out the door. It hurt and disappointed 
us all and it almost killed him. He doesn't 
need to go through that again. Now - maybe 
you understand.













Virgil, his head in his hands. 













the Rangers. I could check better than these 
guys today.








I thought you would have been long gone
after that outburst from my evil twin
brother. We've had him committed you
know. Rikers Island - hard time. 






for stomping around in life like Bigfoot today.






How far is it from my front porch?






Fourteen steps and I arrive right where I want 
to be. But -- if I run or rush, I'll lose count 
and slam into it.




alone. I - I guess I should get back, start to pack...









their dinner - Hungry Man beef entree - each category of food in 
it's own perfect little compartment. 









Jennie thinks it's the only way I'll 
know where my food is. But I have a 
secret weapon.


something - like some.



the bottle. 


Don't want to overdo it.



face it. 















night - drifts on the wind - wait - 
hear the breeze then...







close - taking in the night air - enjoying the moment. 






crickets. His eyes slowly open. 




















settles into his arm, he strokes her face gently - a blind man's 
version of watching his lover fall to sleep. 






dreams. 


front porch. She can't hear what they are saying - but it's clear 
there's a problem. 




turns on her heel and walks away from Virgil. 




steps out onto the porch. 







something I want to say...








being with you - I felt different -
special - I don't know - whole.











you - all of you. 


I know how important it is to you...









- what could it hurt?
Off Amy's smile: 






towards Manhattan. 



- so many things to see.





sounds - new and exciting. Amy watches him as she drives. 




can even do anything yet.







do you remember seeing anything at all? 




happened - but there is one thing. 


remember about it. Everyone says it's 
"clouds," but I know I had it in my hands 
- so it couldn't be clouds. This puffy 
thing - that was something special - 
it's stayed with me all these years - 
I don't know why.





a high-tech examination of Virgil's eyes. Cups attached to wires sit 
over his eyes. The machine, an ELECTRORETINOGRAM, emits an 
irritating strange flat line sound. The room is very dimly lit. 


flashing lights hit Virgil's eyes. The doctor jots down a reading - 
then with a flourish, spins the machine away from Virgil's face and 
pops a button emitting a detailed computer print out. 


papers in his hands. 






as Amy moves to join them. 



posterior subscapular cataracts.








remove them with little or no damage 
to your cornea.




they're gone - then what?




covering the window of sight. If the disease 
to the retina is reduced as much as I think 
it is - there's a very good possibility 
we can give you sight.



this all in. 








I think I can get the institute to pick up the bill.




do you have any idea what kind of vision I'd have?






cataracts are not allowing me to see the 
retinal wall. I can't tell how advanced 
the retinitas pigmentosa has become.


that may or may not be successful.




could regain his sight.




vision in adulthood to a patient blind since birth. 


but nothing as invasive as what you went 
through as a child. Of course there is 
always some risks with any operation - 
infection, swelling - long shot stuff. 
I would do both eyes at the same time 
- it's basically out patient surgery.
Virgil - an exhale of air. A lot to take in. 



the operation - with all it's risks - 
and you remove the cataract - and it doesn't work.







never be able to see.



reaches out takes his hand. 












blinder than we've seen him before. The city sounds an assault on 
him. 



across the street and...



loft building, an old converted industrial space. 




bounce. As they come up on the second floor landing, a basketball 
comes flying down the hall which Amy fumbles with - then catches. 






shirt. Amy tosses him his ball. 



outside till she gets home from work.




ball in the hall, he'll have a coronary.








this is my friend Virgil.




























- what's so bad.





living area - a BED in the corner of the room - a WORK SPACE with 
DRAFTING BOARD and DRAWING RACKS fill one side of the room. By a 
window stands a plaster SCULPTURE stuck in the corner as if 
forgotten. 



- it's a bit of a mess but...



down. 



Walk me down a straight line and show me your 
place, all the obstacles. Remember once you've 
told me, they can't be moved - otherwise...






low table at.. .at 4 o'clock, 
has the phone on it...





















stopping during the dialogue. 



- like she's proud? It's beautiful.




one day I'll finish it.






I could use some air.








stack of plans on her drafting table - blowing them across the 
floor. 
















- crouches down beside her - tries to help her pick up. 









project we're bidding on - drawings of a lobby 
we're finishing up, some other smaller stuff. 
It's -- it's what I do.



She watches him - then standing, moves to him. 



- we could listen to music or go out for dinner...



















she forgets her purse - steps back in to see: 


feeling the paper - searching for the design - wanting to know her - 
wanting to understand her - finding nothing there. 






very funny scene where Woody and Diane Keaton wrestle with the 
lobster. 


each other - Amy quietly describing the scene to him. 



a huge lobster in his hand...


























themselves. Two kids sit in the corner - blasting their boom box 
Virgil stands in the middle of the train - enjoying the vibrations. 
Amy sits on a seat watching him. 



























the subway car wall. 






from Me." Virgil turns to Amy - picks up on the song - hands RAPPING 
- he starts singing: 



The way you sip your tea..."



down the aisle. 








































"The way you make me see..."








you to have the operation...




The chance to see Central Park, 
the Brooklyn Bridge, apples, raisins,
a buffalo, a carbuerator and the man 
in the moon. 


just to see this face.



- then - Amy starts to sing along with the song - Virgil joining in 
- and they dance - together - in love. 














gloved HAND comes into frame - picks up a clamp - and we follow it 
to: 


are seeing is grueling - difficult to watch - but at the same time 
so fascinating it is hard to take our eyes off. 


leans over Virgil - looks to the ANESTHESIOLOGIST who nods - then to 
no one in particular. 






the white section of the eye - and just as it feels almost 
unbearable to watch- - 




a vending machine. She makes her way over to reveal Jennie who sits 
quietly reading a book. 





They both sip for a moment. 



- do they know? 



even a teenager. And our father - he's been 
gone for quite awhile. 













- taking care of Virgil alone after 
your mother died.










doing this - do you?




Hope is like fire, it can keep you 
warm - - or it can burn you.







middle of it. 






all to see - before he PLOPS it on a tray. Switching instruments - 
he gingerly picks up a plastic implant - moving back towards the eye 
- he glances at the nurse assisting him: 



The eyes are the windows to the soul.



implant into Virgil's eye. 









waiting. 

























like a tequila hang over
- is Amy here?








I see myself to be a bad hair day. 







document the event. 








famous. We're also sending this closed 
circuit to one of our conference rooms 
- there's a lot of people interested in 
our results today. So how you feel Virgil?









of light. 


Now Jennie and Amy, if you would 
stand off to my right -- I want 
Virgil to get just a slight bounce 
of light.









to unravel the bandages. 


gauze patches on both eyes. 



we remove these patches and...





I mean, what will I see first?




your sister. This is new for 
us all. Why don't we find out?



everyone waits. 


bewildered - not focusing at Aaron who stands before him, still 
holding the bandages. 








crossing his face. 












to us. There is no perception of depth -. no sense of definition of 
shape or shadow - it is as confounding to us as it is to Virgil - 
like an explosion of Picasso, Dali and Monet on screen. 


and a voice emits out of what we now for the first time recognize as 
a mouth. Dr. Aaron speaks again - leaning in to Virgil, who reacts 
back. 










slowly, then a dam break. 



What's happening?




it's going to take...




don't say it's fine.







trying to take it all in - trying to focus. 




this can't be seeing - something's wrong
- too confusing - what the hell's happening??!



like a giant monster violently moving towards us! 






are 15 feet away. 















he sees, any quick movement - Amy moves next to him - Aaron trying 
to remain calm - Jennie assuring Virgil everything's OK. 



OK. Let's everybody just calm down 
- we'll take it slowly.









and forth. 



gimme a second - OK, OK - get me a 
coke. Somebody?








put something in my hands!









slowly opens his eyes - trying to focus on what is in his hand - 
Aaron catching on. 



associate - now, tell me - what do you see 
in your hand?













staring intently at it - learning it. 




His fingers tell his brain - then his brain 
tells his eyes and he recognizes the image 
in front of him. 





to them to meet him outside. 



we'll check them again tomorrow. We should
all be happy - we've got something.



Virgil's hand while Amy stands there upset - watching him just 
staring at a Soda Can. 




exiting the near-by conference room all congratulating the two 
doctors. As Amy exits the room - Aaron moves to her. 











he see me, his sister, anything.




understand that he sees you.




this is temporary right?




part of his brain area allocated to 
vision is atrophied - given it's lack 
of use, Virgil has probably used it 
for some other function.












were until we gave him the operation. If you 
remember - we didn't know what to expect 
- though it's clear his retinal disease must 
be in remission.




you saw him - it's like he's another 
person in there.




- let him rest. But I will need to see him 
every couple of days for the next month. 




he should be doing - someone to help him.





- a little unorthodox - that's why he's probably 
your best bet, especially considering the unique 
aspects of Virgil's condition. I'll contact 
him for you - but there's no guarantee he can help.







new ground - for all of us.



stares at Dr. Aaron - a little overwhelmed. 




not comprehending what it is. He closes his eyes - his hand going 
out to feel it - then opening his eyes - he takes the shirt turns - 
and notices someone watching him. 






Virgil stares at himself standing stock still - waiting for a 
response from the person staring at him. 





towards the mirror fascinated. 


becomes clearer to him. His hand going up to his nose - moving it 
back and forth - laughs at it's absurdity - then is taken with his 
own smile. He tries a smile - comes off awkward as he starts to 
stare at his teeth. Touching each part of his face he investigates 
his chin, ears and finally his hair. 


own - but so incredibly foreign to him. Who is this person? 




of laughter from the other room. She looks up quizzically 







cost more.. look, I can't do this on the phone 
- I'll be in tomorrow.. yes, I remembered they're 
putting the fixtures in the lobby - I'll get 
there as well - I'm just asking for one more day.

















him. 






his eyes - staring blankly - trying to figure this out. 

















- we just need to get you home.




I need to be here - see the therapist
- doctor's. I want to be here.




do this alone--who's going to take care.. .?








She doesn't know anything about the blind.




going to let someone I care about 
walk out of my life again.





You can't keep blaming yourself.





















Could you walk me to my car?







uncomfortableness - then: 






looking for any holes he might fall in. 
I'd run up ahead and cover them. Everywhere
I look here, I see holes.




to get hurt anymore than you do.




see those close to him - so he never learned 
to reach out. 


or confused, or unhappy. If you really care 
about him you have to just be there for him.



drives off. 




immediately gets dizzy and nearly falls over. Amy lunges to help 
him. Virgil is laughing in spite of himself. 



What's that saying - stop the world I wanna get off.







coming out of the building with his Mom, KAREN COLVIN. Virgil scans, 
tries to focus on them. 


























then you can rest. 
We'll see you later Ethan. Karen.



start towards the stairs leading into the building - Virgil suddenly 
slamming to a halt. 



- WE'RE WALKING INTO A WALL!!



horizontal lines. Ethan, surprised, what's up here? 



it's just a staircase. You're 
going to have to trust me on 
these things.




I just thought seeing would be different.




- we'll get his help.



out to feel the step before making the commitment. 


Like an accordion spreading itself out to us. This is all a very bad 
acid trip. 




bowls of colorful fruit and streamers intertwined across the room. A 
candyland of seeing. 



in your apartment.



in - not understanding anything. 



special for you.




bit dizzy - but it is special.



He stares at her. 


eyes - her smile. 



beautiful looks like.




see the rest.
Focusing on her, Virgil smiles, takes her face in his hands - leans 
in and kisses her. She pulls back a little. 


- how nervous I am.



















beat - and she stands there naked. 










kiss we slowly fade to black. 




gone, his side of the bed empty. She looks across the room - where 
she sees silhouetted against the moonlit window - - Virgil standing 
next to Amy's sculpture, his face and body pressed up against the 
pane of glass. 







decorating his face. 

















taking the way I saw things up here- - 










- the way I saw them. I end up working 
on them forever - like this one - 
never getting them right.














But I like it.



out at the night rain. 







the windows by five feet...








this is better. 








those Maple trees we're leaving in. 
They're too big - I want to change 
them so they fit in with the design 
better. Get rid of the dead weight.










Evan here will print out the new specs 
- give them to Duncan - tell him I'll
be back in two hours.

















books - a small sea parting to allow Amy helping Virgil up the steps 
and inside. 




BLIND CHILDREN learn to read Braille. Amy can't help but stare at 
these young faces struggling to learn. It's a whole different world. 




the desk - two pickled eyeballs stare back at Virgil and Amy waiting 
patiently. There are books everywhere - periodicals stacked and 
overflowing on shelves. A dead plant in the corner. 


sweatshirt, sits at the desk in front of them - flipping through a 
file in front of him. 



blind at one - before you developed a 
visual vocabulary. 


no knowledge of space, shape, size or 
distance. Basically your eyes work but 
your brain hasn't learned to process 
the information. 


call this "visual agnosia".











searching his pockets: 
















have as she instantly pulls her GLASSES off and hands them to 
Webster who drops them over his nose. They are clearly woman's 
glasses - pointed in the ends - little jewels. As Mrs. Fenster 
leaves. 




Long Term Blindness" - blah-blah-blah. -
ah here... 


again as a sighted person. However it is 
the interim, the limbo- -between two worlds,
one dead/the other powerless to be born - 
that is so terrible." 






That's all you have to offer?




I'm a professor - I teach people, how to 
teach the blind how to become independent. 


- I'd like to help - but like the rest of 
things in life - it's up to you.




I thought you were going to help me here.



digging in a brown paper bag - he pulls out an apple. 



What's this?



it in his hand, eyes closed, feels it - then opening his eyes he 
holds it out in front of him, trying to focus on it. 














that different from the real apple he holds in his hand - he holds 
the real apple up to compare - using his eyes. 








just a picture of an apple?



- just a representation of one. Virgil is visibly disappointed. 



saying - your eyes lie to you? Great 
- looking forward to this.




you Virgil. Remember that. No matter what
I could teach you - no matter what exercises 
I could give you - they'll still play tricks on you.




Nothing makes any sense. I can't function like this.





just like you learned to speak. Only this 
is not like learning a new language - 
it's like learning language for the first time. 


- about reaching out and exploring the world 
for yourself. It's not enough to just see Virgil -- 









but that doesn't tell us anything. 
What we need is some assistance here 
- some kind of program - a set of exercises 
- we're kind of adrift and...




of Parcheesi, it doesn't come with a set of rules.

























hold on Amy's befuddled face - then: 







get him to recommend someone else.




on my own. No one taught you how to see.



him - grabs him just as he was about to step into traffic. 



you don't - you need to...


- where to start..



























- it's blue. There - we've started.





- and tonight we can work on it.
























I have your number.



away. 


journey when we see the cab back up in front of him and Amy climbs 
out. 








records the lecture from the back of the hall. 



still having difficulty understanding images,
shapes, contours - 




to dodge people coming at him from all angles. Amy walks a short 
distance behind him - coaxing him along. 


This is clearly exhausting. 






quickly regains his balance - shakes it off - starts his journey 
again - determined. 




explaining to him items hanging about the stalls. It's clear he's a 
little overwhelmed - when something familiar catches his eye. He 
moves toward it: 


just like the one Amy drove off in - again he focuses - reaches out 
- surprisingly wrapping his hand around the car. 



to interpret objects in his surroundings -



watches him examine it like a child as we hear: 





is extremely limited and confounding to him...



Amy as he stands. 






dog. Virgil looks back at the pup - which has now turned around 
backwards. 














looking for your lobby. Needs very little 
light - slow growing - ah here we are...










"scanning", basically putting a whole picture together.



up - down - Amy and the Saleswoman watch him, Amy wants to help but 
can't comprehend what he's going through. 



to the bottom - he's forgotten the top by the 
time he reaches the trunk.





FUTURE HOME OF etc... Using his finger to outline the letters of the 
sign - he tries to read the word FUTURE. He mouths the letters - 
tries to form the word. 



word - he forgets the first letter by the time 
he gets to the last.



with reading. 




quiet - is seated behind him. 



memory. This is an unexpected physiological 
flaw. We are hopeful Virgil can overcome this. 







REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS. There's a sudden FLASH. Virgil reacts, 
pulling away. 







taking your - picture.













from Channel 2 news steps forward with CAMERA CREW in tow. 



We heard the Doctor speak about your progress 
- and we're wondering what your expectations are.



Amy we cut to: 




reporter. As we pull back we hear less and less as we reveal a 
modest living room. A TEENAGER doing homework on a table in the 
corner and a MAN - early 60's, rugged - sitting on a couch watching 
the news. 









For a Jennie Anderson..











for the fork. Amy pulls it away. 



No cheating. Concentrate.

















front of you. How far is it from.












of that panel feeling like a guinea pig. 
Every time I open my eyes I have to look. 
Can we just sit and have dinner for once?









about. How was your day - what goes on 
at work - how about those Rangers - 
did the stock market hold today - 
is there anything else going on in our 
world besides my eyes?





- Duncan's birthday.



front of Virgil and Amy. Virgil is a little repulsed by what he 
sees. 













good for hand eye coordination.






- I go home with building blocks.





three dimensional rendition of the mall rotates on the screen. 
Duncan pokes his head in. 



happy birthday. How's it going?





- doing the best he can.




designs. We're expected in Atlanta tomorrow 
- with these plans.




- not with Virgil's problems,..














starts to relax. 



you do the things you do?







- that he's never going to be able to see.




- I saw that. You wanted to help him 
- it didn't work out so hot. You can't 
punish yourself.. Sometimes things just 
don't work out the way we want them to 
- look at us.






















utensils - being held by Ethan. 






again. Ethan mimes grating cheese. 










strainers. Now they are both staring at something they don't 
understand. Virgil looks to Ethan. 








to do my homework if...




ain't doin' homework.



his cane folded up on the table. 










about throwing it out.








with one of these - protect my mom from 
the evil super.






off the evil --- whatever this is.



the door. 






fumbling with the handle - he opens it to: 


this is. 





















- c'mon in - this is my friend Ethan 
- what are you doing here?







torn down. Hard hatted WORKERS hover about the large trucks at work. 



what we're doing here?









figure moving across the lot. The MAN we saw watching TV. 













My eyes aren't good enough - not yet 
- he won't understand. It won't be enough.






operation and he's asked to see you. 
Look here he comes.




see him - I don't even know why you
brought me here.



the street leaving Jenny alone. 




Opening her door to: 










dark. She looks over - sees the scattered blocks on the floor. 







- it's no big deal - maybe we should just...




- besides you wanted me to meet your friends, right?









silver balloons float about the ceiling. Moving through the crowd - 
music blasting - Amy introducing people to Virgil over the noise. 














out slowly - hovering - it's clear it's confusing - trying to 
separate out one glass. The Waiter looks to Amy like "is he OK?" 










there - I think I got it.



back. At the last second knocking over two other glasses. 









or probably the last. Let me get a cloth.







large drink of wine. 









Everybody get ready - kill the lights.



lights go out. Virgil panics momentarily. 









they turned off the lights.









breath - then fakes a quick heart attack and drops to the floor. 


more confusing to Virgil. 






focus of attention - good naturedly laughs - Amy smiles, 
embarrassed. Virgil takes a gulp of his wine, finishing it off. 




- glances back in the mirror again, at his hair - not sure he likes 
its style. He tries brushing it to the other side - it's OK. How 
about the other way - not so bad - maybe. It's clear he's a little 
tipsy as he keeps playing with his hair. 






placing it carefully into Virgil's hand: 











music. Searches the room - bopping bodies - balloons being bashed 
round - lights dim. The number of drinks he's had isn't helping. 












both of you to meet him - he'll never 
find us here.



him. 



Duncan. Duncan - Virgil. And this is 
Betsy.


















little cockeyed sometimes.









he'll top you up. KE-VIN!!!













































looks past them and watches Amy and Duncan - more importantly looks 
at Duncan's hair, his clothes. It's clear he's becoming aware of 
appearances. His own especially. 





years, he had cataracts as well.






know him. It's a club you know.












- could use himself a drink. Kevin here 
tells me he's black - did you know that
- I mean look at him - look at me -
isn't that the damnedest thing. He's black. 




















before. It's.. .weird. What does it mean?



arm around Duncan's. 



move those old bones.



Amy. 



meet you Virgil - see you at the opening.



with which Duncan moves, handles things. 














one of Virgil's wild dances takes hold of his hand. The music 
blaring, Virgil starts to get into it - Amy starting to relax - then 
Virgil slowly notices how everyone else is dancing - more 
conservative. 


tries to mimic what everyone else is doing - ends up in just a slow 
shuffle. 


Virgil turns on his heel and strides away. Amy follows after him. 




Amy comes up to him - finds Virgil facing a wall - eyes shut. 






blind. 



I've woken up from a thirty year sleep 
- and the world's passed me by.







at her. 



I wanted to come here tonight - show you I
could "fit" in. Like the big boys do. Big 
seeing boys. Yes. Well, I don't. Don't.




You weren't ready. We shouldn't have come.




You want me to see - but you know what 
- you know what - shit - I don't belong 
in the wonderful world of seeing. 












Fuck looking and the horse it came in on.



into the sliding glass door which explodes in a shower of little 
crystals. 


cuts on his face. 














empty bed beside him. Looks up to see Amy pulling her coat on - 
suitcase at her side. 



















- what's not working?




- and I stare at a total stranger. I stare and 
I stare - and no matter how hard I look - I 
don't see Virgil there anywhere. And the more 
I look at you...












I'm sorry if that disappoints you. 


to go before we say things we don't mean.



face. 




hand goes out. 


hold onto it like in Times Square - trying not to let it go. 




large trees - giving it shelter and shape. 






everything he's got - no bullshit kinda guy. 














sign next to it with raised letters in Braille. As his hand feels 
across it - he also reads the visual letters - Dr. Ray Webster. 


TEENAGERS - a couple of ADULTS - a handful of SEEING IMPAIRED - all 
learning to use a cane. The rapid tapping of their cane like a room 
full of typewriters. 


course - many of them running into desks, tables - it's tough, 
frustrating work. 











out here - when you're done.









hits the ground - he reaches down - finding it, he picks it up - 
it's an apple. He looks to Webster who smiles back at him. 








plays music in the adjacent bar - a few people on the tiny dance 
floor. 



I mean those trees were in the photos.




Let me buy you a drink - get those 
creative juices going.








embrace. This move seems comfortable, familiar to them both. 













Teenage kids and Adults find their way out of the room. As the last 
of them leaves. 



for you - relax those eyes a bit.





Two full ones in their hands - they're both a little in their cups. 
A STRIPPER grinds and weaves her way about the small dance floor to 
the sounds of Talking Heads "Burning down the House". 




Seeing's been the shits.




that - sitting here in these prime viewing seats. 
Forget fixing your eyes - we're going to get 
your head examined.




People don't have these expectations of you 
you can't live up to. You're blind - 
fine - they deal with it.








what everything was, up here...


what I'd expected - not what I'd hoped for.




When you were blind - you dealt with things 
one at a time - sequentially right? A wall 
led to a door to a tree to a car. That's 
how you got to what you wanted - right.


deal with everything all at once - taking in 
the whole picture - which sometimes confuses 
the hell out of what they want.


afraid to take in the whole picture - just don't 
lose sight of what you want.




















time ago. Seeing girls like seeing guys. 







- but they move as one about the floor. 





















watched the leaves turn - so much to see 
- I'd love to go back. 






fixing everything - why'd you give up on us?




We got married for all the wrong reasons. 
I don't think I fell in love with you as 
much as I fell in love with architecture.





but I know I fell in love with you. 











they dance - Amy looks up at Duncan - who hesitates - then leans in 
and kisses her. 


then she leans back in and they kiss again. We hold on this kiss, 
then cut to: 




Amy stands there clutching her clothes - staring into the mirror. In 
the background we see Duncan curled up asleep in bed. 












what time is it?



doesn't talk - keeps dressing. 







a big mistake. Go back to sleep - 
you've got an important meeting tomorrow.




bailing out on me - I need you.

























fact that we've just made a colossal error? 




but goddamit Amy - I still care about you. 
Where do you actuallv think any of this is 
going to lead with this guy?




of this mess tonight - I know I want to find out.











her way over to see it reads: 






staring out at the night Manhattan skyline. After a moment, he walks 
back to the other end of the roof, turns and slowly walk - toward 
the parapet wall again - all the time staring at the skyline - with 
a smile and look of amazement on his face. 



















there - focus on a building. And when you walk 
towards it - it changes - each step makes it 
look different. I started out just looking 
for the horizon.




- too many buildings.




see it - right? You gotta have faith it's there. 
Things exist beyond what I can see - 
I just have to take it on faith.



to her - studies her face: 






I was getting confused - which is no 
excuse for how I've acted, but...




I'm the one's been a shit. You're too 
hard on yourself - expect too much of yourself.










I've wished for just one thing.








one day or one minute. For one goddamned 
half a second. And not just to be able to 
run, or ride a bike, or drive a car. 


bumping into something or to stand in a room
and have to ask "is anyone here" and here 
that dead silence, knowing someone is there. 
Not to have food on my sweater, or have to 
put my finger in my glass to know when it's 
full. I just want to be whole. 








I was letting him down. I feel 
like I'm letting you down.









going to give up now. Amy - that day I met 
you - for the first time in my life I felt 
someone needed me as much as I needed them. 
I don't want you to give up on me.



kissing him. A long kiss - then: 



I owe too much in back rent.










Virgil had been a touch person - someone 
who's vocabulary, whole sensibility, 
his picture of the world was based on 
tactile -- non-visual terms.





tour of the facilities. They enter the weight/workout room. Various 
shapes and sizes of people work out on various shapes and sizes of 
workout machines. 


him.. Virgil hesitates. 


we've seen before. 


by what he sees in front of him. 



focusing singlemindedly on his goal, 
Virgil has a new found ability to 
understand his own physical relationship 
to objects in his life around him...



and equipment - actually "seeing" his way. 



now all have profound meaning to him...









learning process - for all medical intents 
and purposes - he is becoming a seeing person.



skateboard - throwing out his hand to hail a cab. 


advancement for medical science and a 
tribute to Virgil's determination to see.









seeing man - and easily makes his way to the podium. Standing in the 
lights he readjusts the microphone - moving it up from the much 
shorter Aaron. 




sessions - are there any questions?




were surprised to see for the first time
- something that looked quite different 
than you thought?






- they just weren't what I expected.














what are you looking forward to most?








































describe what it is to actually see.









laid out across Amy's desk. Virgil's hand comes into frame - touches 
the model - moves to the plans - touches them. 


his face - his eyes - we see that he is seeing Amy's work. 













to the lobby opening tomorrow - see our work.












the work the ideas. The molding. 
For the first time I really see what
you do - and not just up here... 









special I want to show you















York laid out in front of us. Virgil moves to the edge - looks out 
over this amazing panorama. 





Building, Chrysler building just over there...












I've ever wanted to see. 


What do all those looks mean?






This... is tired. This.. is confused. 
This.. is happy. And this... 










happened. As they kiss we pull slowly back and away as the sun goes 
deep gold and we start to hear what sounds like rain: 






together - kissing - exploring - very sensual. As Virgil moves to 
kiss her neck - her breasts - Amy's head tilts back in to the spray. 






eyesight shudders ever so slight1y - it goes away and they kiss 
again. 











I haven't forgotten.



away - clear something is bothering him. 


again. 




Virgil is working on an OVERWEIGHT MAN - his back is splotchy from 
too much sun. 


- losing his concentration. 



to fall asleep here. 











through the weight room - when it suddenly comes to a halt. 


flashes of black. On the final BLACK: 









- right away. It's an emergency.





Aaron pulls the machine out of the way. Looks at Virgil - rubs his 
hand across his face. 

















sparks of activity - retinal sparks - 
followed by nothing. How long has this 
been going on?




tired - some blurs - occasional cloudiness 
but it's been getting worse. Today I'm 
getting complete blackouts.




percent. I'm afraid - your retinal 
disease seems to have returned.




thought you corrected it. You told me 
I was a 'seeing person'.




Maybe you didn't have the blood vessels 
to supply enough oxygen to the retinas. 
- Possibly some trauma - there are so 
many variables...(beat)
to be honest, I don't know. I wish to God I did.






do we do now - how do we repair this?




nice way to say this.






there. No nice way to let the man know 
it's all over - that.. he's going blind again!








You'll never understand. Ever!



dissipate. A long moment. 







Month - few weeks - 








What do I tell her?









plodding it' a half circle over to where his mother waits for him. 


what he will return to: 




hands out - bumping into people - desperate - scared - trying to run 
from himself - from his fate. 


where do you go - then sees something off screen. His face torn with 
fear - he moves forward - hand out - reaching to a window - to his 
own REFLECTION. 


his hand on his face - a face he may never see again - and a cloud 
passes overhead and his reflection is gone. 




walks slowly over to him - raising his arms to embrace him. 


understands - looks his son up and down. 







I'm blind - or because I quit trying to see?




something you got from me.




you for over twenty years - then you find 
out I can see and all of a sudden you show up?









wrong that made you tear our family apart.



under his breath. 



and saw my own failures. If I couldn't get 
my own son to see then...What difference 
does any of this make - you can see now 
- hell, I knew you could.









step back. 







person I've told. I wanted to come see 
you before it was completely gone.






walks away - forever. 















Tremont. We did the lobby. I'm here to 
check some details for tonight.









central check in desk. Simple - unobtrusive - nothing exceptional or 
unique. 


every possible angle - his hand grazing across walls, entranceways - 
desperately committing as much as he can to memory - finally ending 
up in the middle of the room in a final attempt to absorb as much as 
he can. 














windows a wall of water comes dripping down - causing a shower of 
indoor rain - the sound instantly echoing off of the walls. 


the indoor rain - really taking in the room having total empathy 
with what Amy has created. 




Amy comes in, dressed beautifully - using the mirror to put her 
earrings in. Virgil quickly opens his eyes. 







What do you think?



























he's up against. 




champagne, tiny hors-d'oeuvres. Virgil and Amy enter - standing at 
the top of the stairs leading to the party. Virgil immediately going 
into a performance for Amy. 







I'm proud of you. I love the detail 
- planted pots in the corners, 
the moldings... 
















- then back in focus. 
















trouble focusing - but Duncan helps him - taking hold of it and 
shaking it. 



you'll get it don't worry.








I just get the gigs. Can I steal her 
away Falks' over there and I can't 
tell if he's impressed with our work 
or just has gas from the pate.








and drinks down on the floor.



place to stand. His eyesight fading in and out - he looks around - 
decides to negotiate the steps: 


with Falk and Duncan, looking up at him - she smiles - he does his 
best - smiles back - lets go of the handrail - takes another step - 
finally reaching the bottom floor. 


glimpse towards the rain sculpture and he starts towards it using 
the sound to help guide him. 


little wave - he doesn't notice her. 


next to him. 

















I've been trying to find you - 
Amy's office told me you were 
here. It's bad?




have been pretty bad.








This is her big night - I didn't 
want to ruin it. Thought I could 
pull it off.













lost than never to have seen at all?














you off I think. The place is terrific 
- he's got every right to be proud.




moment - schmoozing time.












they arrive. 



Falk and his wife Donna up from Atlanta.


















Any help you can give us with our project?




liked Amy's original design.














Let's keep trying for perfection.






why I've got Virgil.



we push in on Virgil as he takes in this thought. 




town car with Falk and his wife - he looks back - gives the thumbs 
up and climbs in after them. The car pulls away into the night. 

















come alive with that fountain.






so great now - and if we get this new 
design job we'd have some extra money
- I think we should go on a big seeing
celebration.









I looked into Egypt - we could see 
the pyramids - we could see it 
together for the first time. 
What do you say?




I'd like to see.








be over before we know it - could be
our last chance.









larger as we move towards a SOUND. A hum that grows in intensity 
until the light fills the frame and BAM - we exit the tunnel and we 
are: 




a giant jewel- and the players - in bright colors scurrying about 
the playing surface below. 






on his face - a flash - one of those moments of darkness. 



like the game's already started.









goal. Amy looking at the stadium while Virgil next to her, watches 
the game best he can. 



way it's structure...











ice. The puck squirts out Gretzky picks it up - fires it across ice 
- one, two it's back to him and he has a wide open break from center 
ice - the crowd is out of their seats - Virgil included - Amy 
quickly getting caught up in the enthusiasm. 


then losing him - another flash of blackness - like a blow to the 
head - and we hear the crowd suddenly explode - and as Virgil's 
vision regains we see the players mobbing Wayne after his goal - the 
little red light behind the net the only evidence of it happening. 





that - it was amazing.



sees the expression again on his face. 










from him: 




he stands - stepping out into the aisle - a man on a mission. 






vendor. 


round and puffy like a cloud - but something he can hold in his 
hand. Amy can't believe it - watching Virgil - his fascination at 
finding this long lost memory. 






trying to find Amy - who waves to him excited. 




four rows up - he doesn't see her. 











A lot to take in.































Solve the problem. We made it 
through one operation - we'll 
make it through another. We won't
give up. We'll get this right 
- we just need to...




There's nothing they can do.




There's got to be someone else. 
We'll find something that works.




I can't go through this again.




give up? Why the hell haven't you told
me what was going on?













there's a solution. Goddamit, 
I'm not design flaw in your fucking 
work that you can just change to 
make work Or throw away because 
it doesn't meet your expectations. 















the bed - pulls out his duffel bag. 











leaving this apartment - you're 
leaving New York - you're leaving me?



apart. 









feed you TV dinners for of your life.












been to you - bullshit?




I'm blind - I'm not meant to see 
- I don't belong here.




live in your own little world - this perfect 
world that your sister built for you 
- where no one can touch you ... where no 
one can reach you.




cotton candy all those years? Because I went 
to the game with my father. And it's the 
only good thing I can remember about him. 
The rest is him pushing me to be something
I'm not - then turning his back on me the 
minute his plans fail.




You want me to give up on you 
- you love the self pity.




But you won't give up on me seeing.











lamp, which crashes to the ground and breaks. 








heavier thing breaking. 






Virgil has collided with Amy's sculpture of the woman. He sits among 
the pieces on the floor. 













of him he finds his way to the bed. 



We both didn't get what we wanted.









did you ever think this wasn't going 
to work - that for one minute I may 
not be able to see. 


to have a relationship with a blind man?









and moving to the door - leaves. 




He looks out the window - sees the receding city - and he closes his 
eyes - listens to the rain. 




door opens and Virgil gets out - and turns to face up the street - 
the street he knew so well that is so foreign to him right now. 














tongue hanging out. 






her back to get a good look at her. 



You're so beautiful.. yes.



him back to 'normal'. 




life. Nothing on the walls - no decorations - no plants. Everything 
functional. He realizes this is a home designed by his sister. 


Stares at it - at his father and mother for the first time. 








Nothing's changed.




I'd like to be alone.



is clear - he knows who it is. Jennie sees this and moves toward the 
phone. 


Sophie, as his sister picks up the phone in the background. 




phone. A beat and she hangs up. We hold on Virgil: 




in but now seems so foreign. Virgil seems oddly disturbed by what he 
sees. 


it's not what he expected. 




designs - the new design with the trees - then she sees: 


slowly shuts them - and with them tightly closed - her hand reaches 
out and runs along the drawings. 




he stood with Amy. In front of him he sees: 




trees - one lover choosing between two others. 




at one time so special to him. Now it just seems old and dingy - the 
magic is gone. 


left - the right - but there is nothing there. 




never been inside. 






splayed out in front of him. He is flipping through them at a rapid 
rate - like a drowning man searching for air. 


flowers, Marilyn Monroe, that Napalm burned little girl in Viet Nam, 
African masks, Dachau prisoners, Nixon, Warhol paintings, the Mona 
Lisa, that vulture watching over the little baby, the Eiffel tower, 
First Man on the moon, the Venus De Milo, that guy in front of the 
tank in Tianaman square .. and the Pyramids. 


sponge - life, beauty, horror, great people, great events... 


time - a face filled with anguish at a world disappearing. And we 
cut to: 




the parapet - watching the horizon. 


she walks back to the other end of the roof, turns and looks out 
towards the skyline again ... then starts slowly walking towards the 
parapet till she reaches the wall again. 


did. 




window - moves a chair to join it - stands back to have a look at 
it. 




and exhausting for him. 








T-shirts, I'm sure you're out, some socks...




end of Main Street?








What happens when this is no more Main Street?







That's wrong. There's a helluva lot out there.






















he called told me...




you've spent your whole life as 
blind as I was. The world doesn't 
stop within our reach.




Stop thinking about what's out there 
- things that will never matter to you. 
You're safe here where everyone...












Jennie, this place was a wonderful safe 
haven for me growing up. I know that. 


to keep this world for me. I thank you 
and love you from the bottom of my soul. 
But now I want to give you your life back.

















first time as tears flow from her eyes. 




trying to piece the sculpture back together. It's a difficult fix. 












the door - and the door opens. Duncan 



handy one day. What a mess - what happened?
















we got it!! Now - pull yourself out of this 
slump - I want you to fly down this week to...










What's the problem here?




Nothing is right thank-you very much.




the problem - you met a blind guy you 
thought was cool and spent the first 
two months trying to change him.








- you can't change people to solve you. 
You tried to do it with me - you tried 
to do it with Virgil. You ever think 
some of the things you try to fix 
- ain't broke.



slowly she starts to hear: 




she takes a breath - jumps up quickly and moves her way over to the 
door - unlocking it and swinging it open: 







































walks, counting steps, touching landmarks, we realize he is using 
sight very little. 




leaves now starting to turn golden colors - he stops - stands over 
top of the pond. 


white clouds against the bluest sky. 


horizon. 


the blue sky goes golden then drifts into darkness. Virgil doesn't 
move from the spot. The screen goes almost black - then slowly the 
sun starts to rise in the east. 


across him - he realizes it's day. He stands and unfolds his cane. 
It's clear he has returned to being completely blind. 





One was to see. The other - to play 
for the New York Rangers.





hand. 



sight - I realize - I'd rather play for the Rangers. 


things - some good, some back some that 
I'm already forgetting.






make us see. We only live in darkness 
when we don't look - look at what is 
genuine about ourselves - genuine 
about others - you don't need eyes for that.



Braille with them. Webster watches from the corner of the room. 




building and makes his way across the street to Washington Square. 




Balling up his paper bag - he taps his cane out - finds the garbage 
can nearby - and tosses the bag - rim shot - it misses, hits the 
ground. A hand reaches into frame and puts the bag in the garbage. 
Virgil looks up - senses the presence. 

















- said I could find you here. 


to the tree and I made us smash 
right into it.










I'd love you to see it.








first met you - you saw more than 
any sighted person I've ever known. 
I didn't mean to take that away from you.




the horizon. You did that for me. 
It's out there. You showed me you 
just have to reach for it..



his. 














walk off into the park, we slowly FADE to BLACK and just LISTEN, 
listen to the SOUNDS of the day - the percussion of the city. 







