Malcom X


Fourth draft (1991)
Screenplay by James Baldwin, Arnold Perl and Spike Lee
Based on The Autobiography of Malcolm X as told to Alex Haley


	FADE IN:



It is a bright sunny day on a crowded street on the black side of 
Boston. PEOPLE and KIDS are busy with their own things. 

SHORTY bops his way down the street. He is a runty, very dark 
young man of 21 with a mission and a smile on his face. He wears 
the flamboyant style of the time: the whole zoot-suit, pegged legs 
and a wide brim hat with a white feather stuck in the hat band.



3 	OMIT 

4 	OMIT



FOLLOW SHOT. Shorty dodges through the crowd with his packages. 
His smile is one of anticipation. He nods to a PAL without 
stopping; eyes a COUPLE OF CHICKS dancing on the street, but is 
not dissuaded.



Shorty has his jacket and hat off, his sleeves rolled up. He is like a 
surgeon preparing for an operation. His equipment is spread out on 
a table: can of lye, large mason jar, wooden stirring spoon, knife, 
the eggs. His actions have the character of a ritual: each thing 
being done just so, in time-honored fashion.

He slices the potatoes and drops the thin slices into the mason jar.
He adds water and makes a paste of the starch.

Behind Shorty is a spirited barbershop conversation. ONE MAN is
getting a haircut; TWO OTHERS are watching (TOOMER, JASON)
one of them from behind a newspaper. A middle-aged barber, 
CHOLLY, is doing most of the talking.


		After I hit the number that woman wasn't no good 
to me at all.

	The men laugh.

	ANGLE - Shorty pries open the can of lye, whiffs it. It's good and 
strong. He pours some in the mason jar, stirring with the wooden 
spoon. He cracks the eggs into the mixture and stirs. He waits as 
fumes rise and feels the outside of the jar as it gets hot.

	ANOTHER ANGLE - The barbershop SEEN from a door, slightly 
ajar. A woolly head, entirely in shadow, peers out. 

				CHOLLY'S VOICE 
		She says I'm cheap cuz I won't cop her a diamond 
ring. Had the indignation to call me a cheap 
black sunovabitch to boot.

				TOOMER 
		And when a black woman call you a cheap black 
sunovabitch you've been called a cheap black 
sunovabitch.

	Cholly is annoyed. It's _his_ story. 

				CHOLLY 
		Will you let me tell it?

ON SHORTY - He opens the bulky package he has been carrying, 
unfolds a large rubber apron and gets into it. Now he dons a pair of
rubber gloves.

				SHORTY 
		Where's Homeboy?

He is all ready; one of his hands is filled with a huge glob of 
Vaseline. His manner is indignant as if he were asking the whereabouts 
of an exasperating child.


		Red's in the head, man.


		You mean hiding in the head.


		Hey, Red. Your man's here and waiting on you. 

His hands full, Cholly opens the door with his feet and MALCOLM comes 
out, a big, gawky, bright-faced country boy, wearing downhome clothes 
and an expression of apprehension.


		Gonna get that first conk laid on, hunh, 
Homeboy?


		Man, don't scare him more than he's scared 
already. Ain't too bad...

	Malcolm allows himself to be led to an empty chair, where Cholly drapes 
him with a double sheet, tucking it tightly around his neck and adding 
a protective collar of paper.


	...Like anything else. First time a chick gets her 
cherry popped, she might put up a little fight. But 
pretty soon you can't give her enough. Right, 
Homeboy?



Malcolm gulps, his eyes on the fuming mason jar. 

Shorty starts massaging a great quantity of Vaseline into Malcolm's 
scalp, covering his neck and ears as well. All the men have gathered
around, involved in the ritual. For Malcolm it is closer to being a 
kind of execution.


		Git his forehead and eyebrows.


		I know what I'm doing.

	Shorty applies the Vaseline to that area.  Now he brings over the
steaming jar and places it nearby.

SHORTY (contd)
Listen. You pull my coat if it's still stinging 
when I get through 'cause this shit can burn a 
hole through cement.


		Hold tight, baby, and keep your eyes shut.

	Malcolm nods his head, clenches his eyes and grits his teeth. Shorty 
applies the congolene with a comb, working it into Malcolm's hair.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

				MALCOLM
		I thought you said it was gonna sting... this 
ain't nothin'.

	For a moment nothing happens, then the heat hits him. He yells, tries 
to catch his breath: his head is on fire.

                    MALCOLM (contd)
You motherfucker.  You're killing me. I'm 
burning up. My damn head is on fire.

He nearly leaps out of the chair, but the barber restrains him.

Shorty, utterly unmoved by the outburst, continues working the 
congolene into his hair. 

Malcolm breaks out of the chair wildly. But the three men drag him to a 
basin where Shorty has attached the shower spray. His cries filling the 
room, Malcolm is ducked under the spray. Shorty starts rinsing out his 
hair.


		Don't fight me, man. Let me git it out.

	Malcolm is a little relieved, he tentatively opens his eyes, then he 
feels the congolene again and there is another outburst. Shorty forces 
his head under the spray, spurts the water all over his head, wetting 
Malcolm and the shop in the process.



8 	OMIT




		Well, Homeboy, you almost there. Turn around.

	Shorty is supervising as Malcolm tries on a zoot suit. He slips into 
the jacket...

	Shoes-off, Malcolm steps into the tight-fltting peg-legged pants ......
dons a wide-brimmed hat with a bright blue feather.... Finally, fully 
outfitted, he leans forward toward his new image in the full-length 
mirror, twirling a long, dangling key chain.


		Well, all right, then.


		Well, all reet, then.

	The transformation is complete. The two laugh and slap hands. 

10	EXT. ROXBURY STREET - DAY

	Malcolm and Shorty come strutting down the street: two conked,
zoot-suited sharpies. Hometown boy has departed. And the CHICKS on the 
street notice them, especially Malcolm, the taller of the two, the 
lighter-skinned, the more dominant. They walk imperiously past, fully 
aware of their impact.



	FREEZE FRAME. He becomes a STILL.


		When my mother was pregnant with me, she told 
me later, a party of Klansmen on horseback 
surrounded our house in Omaha.

10A 	ANGLE. KLAN on horses in front of house.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
They brandished guns and shouted for my father 
to come out. My mother went to the door where 
they could see her pregnant condition... 

ANGLE. A pregnant Louise Little on porch.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...and told them my father was in Milwaukee, 
preaching. 

ANGLE. The Klan breaks all the windows in the house then rides off into 
the glorious D.W. Griffith _Birth of a Nation_ moonlit night. 

	CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
The hooded Klansman said the good, white 
Christians would not stand for his 
troublemaking, and to get out of town.

	ANGLE. The terrified Little children look out a broken window at their 
mother.



				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
They broke every window with their rifle butts 
before riding off into the night, their torches 
flaming.

	ANGLE. FRONT PORCH OF THE LITTLE HOUSE - AN EMPTY ROCKER ON IT

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
My father was not a frightened Negro as most 
were then and as many still are today. He was 
six feet four and very black...



He looks directly into the camera, wearing a Baptist Minister's robe.

 				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...and had a glass eye. He believed, as did 
Marcus Garvey, that freedom, independence and 
self-respect could never be achieved by the 
Negro in America . . .



	He wears a Garvey hat, ornate with gold braid.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...that, therefore, black men should leave 
America and return to the land of their origin.





				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
My father dedicated his life to his beliefs 
because he had seen four of his six brothers 
die violently...


preaching.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...three killed by white men and one lynched. 
There are nine children in our family.

	ANGLE. The nine Little children. 

	CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE 

She is a pretty, mature woman and white-looking.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
My mother was an attractive woman, an educated 
woman, a strong woman.



	A posed wedding picture, serious but sweet.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
She was very light, her mama was raped by a 
white man. One of the reasons she married my 
father was because he was so black, she 
disliked her complexion and wanted her children 
to have some color.



	Flash bulb of camera flashes. 

11	OMIT



13 	OMIT 

14 	OMIT

15 	INT. ROSELAND STATE BALLROOM - NIGHT



	They both were posed for a picture. The music "FLYING HOME" is blaring 
as LIONEL HAMPTON and his band is killing. The music is WILD, the
dancing is frantic, the clothes are OUT, and the crowd is predominately 
BLACK, although there is a peppering of WHITES, especially white chicks.
And Malcolm is a little bug-eyed as he nudges Shorty, watching mixed 
couples on the floor. 

A BOY in extreme zoot-suit flips him; a WHITE GIRL in long blond
hair wigs him. Malcolm is a little open-mouthed.






People start moving off the floor, making room for the dancers. The 
music begins to get faster and more furious. 

	CLOSE - HAMPTON'S BAND - NIGHT 

It is a fast Lindy. People start clapping to the beat as they form a U 
around the DANCERS, with the band at the open end.



	TWO COUPLES are on the floor, dancing wildly. They are quickly joined 
by a half dozen OTHERS. These are the best dancers and constitute the 
main event of a Saturday night black dance. People crowd and push to 
get better vantage points and the competition is under way.



It is dominantly black, but there are some whites in the audience, 
mostly women. One is SOPHIA, a spectacular blonde with a degree of
refinement, something of a thrill-seeker. Many of the men try to catch 
her eye, but for the moment Sophia is just watching, looking for no one 
in particular, but nonetheless looking.



	Getting ready to enter the fray, the GIRL takes off her shoes and 
bounces out on the floor barefoot with her partner. Their advent is 
greeted with cheers and ad libs. Clearly the crowd has its favorites. 

	WIDER SHOT

The music gets faster and the dancing takes on a more frantic and more 
remarkable quality. 

	FOLLOW SHOT - MALCOLM 

He is looking for his partner, the girl he brought and now he sees her. 
He makes his way through the watching audience. 

	CLOSE - LAURA 

She is a fine chick, cool and beautiful. She smiles as she sees Malcolm 
approaching.

TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm stand together, delighted to be with one 
another, starting to move to the music, as they watch the dancers.


		Come on, baby, let's show 'em how.

	Laura smiles shyly; she's willing.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
You better get out of them shoes, girl.

	Laura laughs, goes quickly to a bench and changes into a pair of 
sneakers.



	Because of the competition, Laura and Malcolm begin at high speed. In a 
moment they are executing the most intricate steps of the "flapping 
eagle" and the "kangaroo." Malcolm starts boosting her over and around 
his hips, then boosting her over his shoulders. Laura is the perfect 
partner. She loves it.



	So does the crowd, who loves new stars. There are ad lib remarks: "Go,
man, go." "Hey, Red." "Mmmmmm ummm."



	A big, fat, hefty BLACK WOMAN takes Shorty out to the dance floor, and 
she takes the lead. As they do the Lindy she is slinging Shorty around 
like a rag doll. This woman slides him through her legs and Shorty has 
had enough, he runs off the dance floor, and hides.

	TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm are, in the phrase, cooking on all burners 
now; and when they execute an especially intricate step, even Hamp 
waves over.

	Malcolm is sweating and flushed and enormously elated. He sees that 
people are watching him, goading him on. He notices that Sophia, in 
particular, has not taken her eyes off him; she is clapping in time to 
his steps.

	Seeing new stars in the making, the other dancers move to the side of 
the floor, marking time, yielding the dance floor to them. Laura and 
Malcolm go into a solo.



	The crowd loves it. Malcolm and Sophia are very aware of each other. 
The finale is the classic drag, with Laura hanging limp around 
Malcolm's neck as he capers off the dance floor to the spontaneous 
applause of the audience. 

	CLOSE SHOT - SOPHIA (SLO-MO) 

Clapping enthusiastically -- in open admiration. 

	CLOSE SHOT - SHORTY

	Waiting to catch them as they come off. Shorty is whistling and shaking 
his hand appreciatively. He is also looking out for his dance partner.


		Hey, man, gimme some skin.


		Shorty, this is Laura.




		'Lo. I've got to freshen up.


		Now you come back.

	Laura laughs as she goes. She surely will be back.


		That's a fine chick.


		Fine as May wine.


		Except she live on the hill and got a grandma.


		Make it too easy and it ain't no fun.

	Then his vision catches Sophia, who is approaching him. She makes a 
simple, direct gesture, "Want to dance?" Malcolm eyes Shorty and 
wordlessly glides into Sophia's arms.



	Immediately from the glances of the other men at the dance, he is the 
cynosure of all eyes. He has new status. It's a heady feeling because 
she is the first white girl he has ever been with socially who is not 
an obvious whore. He begins to show off a little, cuts a few fine 
steps.

	TWO-SHOT. They are dancing closer than before. Sophia begins to rock 
his black world. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Trying to play it cool -- but he is beginning to pant. Not from the 
dancing, but from the situation: a gorgeous white chick asking for
it.


		Why don't you take your little girl home, Red, 
and come on back?

	He stops in his tracks. He can't believe it.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Just walk. Don't run. It'll be here when you 
get back. 

He can only grin.

18	EXT. LAURA'S HOUSE - ROXBURY - NIGHT 

The porch of a respectable house. Malcolm with Laura; he anxious to get 
away.


		I better not come in.


		I ain't stupid.


		I mean it's late, baby.


		I know where you're going.


		I'm going to bed. I gotta work tomorrow, need 
my rest.

	Laura walks to the door.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Baby, I'll call you tomorrow.


		What for? I ain't white and I don't put out. 

The front door opens, it's Laura's grandmother, MRS. JOHNSON.


		'Night, Mrs. Johnson.

	He runs down the porch steps.



	The lone light emits from the car radio which plays The Inkspots' "IF I
 	DIDN'T CARE."



	Sophia pulls her tight sweater over her head to expose two full ripe 
white breasts. Malcolm's eyes are popping out of his head. NOTE: It's 
very unusual for women not to wear a bra back in that day but you might 
say Sophia was way ahead of her time.


		Malcolm, look at them. Have you ever seen white 
breasts like these?



	He shakes his head.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Put your black hands on them.

	He is paralyzed.

SOPHIA (contd) 
Please do as I say.

	Malcolm mumbles something. He then kisses Sophia as if his black life 
depended on it and he commences to kill it.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Hey, baby.

 	She stops him for a moment, but he buries his head in her long neck.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Am I the first white woman you've been with? 

She already knows the answer. He laughs.


		Sheeet, you ain't. I had aplenty.


		...That isn't a whore?

Knowing she's right, Sophia becomes the aggressor. 

A beat -- both panting -- then Malcolm stops abruptly. He raises his 
hand to his face, then to Sophia's hand which is still caressing him.


		That's alright. Baby, take your time. Sophia's 
not going anywhere. I told you to walk, don't 
run.


		Shhhh! I don't like women that talk.



She shrugs, then moves to embrace him.


		Who wants to talk? 

The couple starts at it again. 

19A	INT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

	On the screen, Bogart and Cagney are blasting away the dirty, flat-
footed coppers with machine guns. It's one of those great Warner 
Brothers gangster B movies, maybe _The Roaring Twenties_.



	Malcolm and Shorty sit, transfixed in their seats.


		Don't you know, you can't hump the Bogart.


		Eat lead, coppers.



	A bright, sunny day, long shadows in the park. The Commons is almost 
empty. Two improbable zoot-suited blacks race past trees, and run over 
the grass. Malcolm and Shorty are playing Cops and Robbers while 
PASSERSBY stare.


		Bang, bang. You're dead.


		Naw, you missed me, copper. Try this on for 
size. 

Malcolm fires an imaginary tommy machine gun at Shorty.


		I forgot to tell you I'm wearing a bulletproof 
vest.


		The hell you are.


		I'm tired of always playing the cops. I wanna 
be Bogart sometimes.


		You're too small to be Bogart.


		I'm not too short to be Cagney.

	Shorty shoots Malcolm from behind.

				SHORTY (contd) 
Pow. Take that.

	Malcolm acts as if he's been hit.


		Ahhh! You got me, you dirty, filthy, rotten, 
stinking copper, only a low-down yellow rat 
bastard would shoot a man in the back.

	Malcolm starts to stagger, this is a long drawn out Hollywood drawn-out 
death a la Cagney death in _Public Enemy_. 

	LOW ANGLE - MALCOLM

	Malcolm falls directly into the camera, face first, and Shorty stands 
over him.


		He use to be a big shot.



22	OMIT

23 	OMIT 

24 	OMIT 

25 	OMIT 

26 	EXT. THE TROLLEY TRACKS - NIGHT (REMEMBERED TIME)



	CLOSE EARL LITTLE 

Earl Little's face is in the same exact position as Malcolm's from the 
previous scene. His mouth opens in terror as the moving trolley comes 
closer and closer to the black man lying on the tracks.



	A room, clinically empty; table, chair, and MR. HOLWAY. He is putting 
papers into his briefcase; the hearing is concluded.


		What you mean took his own life?!


		I'm sorry, ma'am. You heard the verdict. A man 
bash in the back of his head with a hammer, lay 
down on the tracks and kill himself! We merely 
act on the verdict. We don't make them.

	He is nearly out the door.


		Do you pay or don't you?


		Read the policy, ma'am. It clearly states.





	Malcolm lies in bed, naked under the sheet. A half-empty whiskey bottle 
and an ashtray full of butts are on the night table: last night's 
partying.


		You like 'em scrambled soft or hard, sweetie?


		C'mere.

	WIDEN TO SHOW SOPHIA at the stove fixing eggs. She wears an apron and 
nothing else. It's a nicely furnished middle-class apartment.


		Sweetie, they're almost ready.


		You hear me, girl?

She shrugs, shuts off the burner, smiles and ambles toward him. 

				SOPHIA 
		You the man. 

				MALCOLM 
		You better believe it. 

She starts to sit down on the bed next to him. 

MALCOLM (contd) 
Sit over there.

He points to a nearby chair. Sophia makes an amiable hand-shrug and 
complacently goes.

				SOPHIA 
		You evil this morning. 

				MALCOLM 
		What's your story, baby?

	He doesn't want to hear her; he wants to talk. He goes right on: 

MALCOLM (contd) 
You one of them white bitches can't get enough 
black dick. Is that what you are?

Sophia smiles. She aims to please. Malcolm smacks the bed next to him. 
She gets up and comes over.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Take it off.

	She takes off the apron.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Now kiss my feet. Kiss 'em!



As Sophia bends to do so.


		Feed me.

	ANGLE. Sophia now has the scrambled eggs on a plate at Malcolm's side. 
She spoons some into his mouth. He chews and swallows slowly, then 
grabs her head and brings it to his. A long, brutal kiss. Then he pulls 
her head away by the hair. She looks at him: anything he wants.


		Yeah, girl; that's your story. When you gonna 
holler "rape," sister?


		Me?


		You will, baby -- if the time come.


		Lemme feed you, sweetie, while they hot. 

Malcolm lays back on the pillow and she holds out the eggs to him.


		Sure wish your mama and papa could see you now. 
And that ofay you gonna marry. 

30	EXT. A BEACH - BRIGHT SUNLIGHT - DAY

	Malcolm and Laura are on a deserted Cape beach. They are dressed but 
have their shoes and socks off, and he has his trousers rolled up. They 
walk, like birds, avoiding getting their feet wet as the waves roll in.


		Malcolm, you can be anything you want. You got 
class and you're smart.


		All them books you read and you still don't 
know nuthin.


		I do know I love you.

Laura stops him and moves to him. Her kiss is a tender one, exploratory. 
Then Malcolm responds, embracing her fully. Her arms go around him as 
they both drop into the sand. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM AND LAURA


		Oh, Malcolm, I love you. Please, there's no one 
around. Now?

	Malcolm turns his head from her, he gets up.


		Let's go.


		Why? Is it because of your white gal? Folks say 
you're running around town with her.


		Save it, baby. Save it for Mr. Right, 'cause 
your grandma's smarter than ya think.

	She looks at him.


		She raised me, my mother died when I was six. 
Is your mother alive?


		Yeah, she's alive.



32	OMIT


33	INT. DRUGSTORE - EVENING 

Laura is eating a banana split. Malcolm is smoking and drinking coffee.


		You know how dumb I was? I used to think that 
"Not For Sale" was a brand name.

	Laura looks over. She doesn't understand.



	Louise's hand reaches for a small sack of flour stamped "Not For Sale." 
She brings it down on the table with a hard, controlled whap.


		I did knock.

	Louise doesn't look up.


		Did you hear me say come in?

	WIDEN TO SHOW Louise with a WHITE SOCIAL WORKER, MISS DUNNE complete 
with pad, pencil and goodwill. Huddled out of sight, but nonetheless 
visible, are five small BLACK CHILDREN.


		There's no point in fighting about it. I'm 
sorry. May I sit down?

	Louise is very aware of the children and struggling for self-possession.


		As you nice enough to ask, we'll git you one. 

One of the children brings over a chair. Miss Dunne sets out her papers.


		It's the same questions, Mrs. Little. Since the 
death of your husband--


		Murder.


		-- there is a serious question as to whether --


		These  are  my  children. Mine. And they ain't 
no question. None.


		I think sometimes, Mrs. Little, candor is the 
only kindness.



				MISS DUNNE (contd) 
All of your children are delinquent, Mrs. 
Little, and one, at least, Malcolm is a thief.


		Get out.


			(still sitting) 
Your control over your children, therefore--


		Did you hear me?!


		You'll regret this, Mrs. Little.


		If you don't move out through that door, you're 
going to be past all regretting.

	The terror-stricken children huddle together.

	FREEZE FRAME. It becomes a still.


		We were parceled out, all five of us. I went to 
this reform school and lived at this woman's 
house. She was in charge.




			(motherly, friendly) 
This is your room, Malcolm. I know you'll keep 
it clean.

34B 	A DINING ROOM TABLE. FIVE WHITE BOYS AROUND IT.


		This is Malcolm, our new guest. We'll treat him 
like a brother.




		I was special. The only colored kid in class. I 
became a sort of mascot. Like a pink poodle.




		I didn't know then that I was a nigger.



34E	MALCOLM SPEAKING BEFORE HIS CLASS. 

34F	MALCOLM DOING HOMEWORK. 

34G	A HORSE HAVING ITS TEETH EXAMINED.


		He's bright.


		They talked about me like



		MRS SWERLIN (contd) 		MALCOLM'S VOICE (contd)
Good grades. 			I wasn't there. Like I was some
Fine athlete.			kind of pedigreed dog or a horse.
President of his class.		Like I was invisible.




	OSTROWSKI is talking to Malcolm, it's after school, the classroom is 
empty.


		The important thing is to be realistic. We all 
like you. You know that. But you're a nigger 
and a lawyer is no realistic goal for a 
nigger...


		But why, Mr. Ostrowski? I get the best grades. 
I'm the class president. I want to be a lawyer.



	Laura and Malcolm. Neither is talking. She is simply watching him as he 
sips his coffee and puffs on a cigarette. 

36A 	INT. OSTROWSKI'S CLASSROOM - DAY


		...Think about something you can be. You're 
good with your hands. People would give you 
work. I would myself. Why don't you become a 
carpenter? That's a good profession for a 
nigra. Wasn't your pa a carpenter?

	Malcolm is silent.

				OSTROWSKI (contd) 
Jesus was a carpenter.






		It's not the end of the world, Malcolm.



38 	EXT. A SIGN - BLINDING SUNLIGHT - DAY

	It reads "KALAMAZOO STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE MENTALLY INSANE"



	The room is totally white and Louise sits in a white smock at a window 
in a rocking chair. 

	CLOSE LOUISE 

As she rocks.


		I said it just as plain, I said, don't let them 
feed that boy no pig, because he got enough of 
the devil in him already. I told her she ain't 
got no reason talk to me that way cuz' my hair 
blow in the wind. You want my skin. All right, 
I'll give it to you. I'll scrape it off. See 
how you like it.

	ANGLE - Louise starts to sing a Negro spiritual. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

He has been standing there in deep pain all along. 

	THE SOUND OF A SPEEDING TRAIN IS HEARD.



	The crack train of the New York, New Haven 
the New England countryside.



	THREE ELDERLY BLACK WAITERS and Malcolm wearing a sandwichman's uniform 
are crowded around a portable radio in the galley where food is 
prepared. The four stand around TULLY, a bland-faced personification of 
fine Pullman service. They are all listening to the JOE LOUIS-BILLY 
CONN heavyweight championship fight.


		Nigger, shut up so we can hear.


		C'mon, Joe.


		Turn it up, Tully.


		It is up. Fool be quiet.


		Tully, move the antenna. . . .

	Tully turns some knobs.


		This Mick is tough.


		Joe is just playing possum. He's waiting for an 
opening. 

The waiters are acting as if they are at ringside.


		A left jab to the jaw and a right cross, scored 
by Louis and Conn is hurt, as Louis rips a 
right to the jaw. Conn is staggering, but he 
won't go down. Conn bops a left hook, he's 
reeling around the ring. Louis hooks a left and 
a right to the jaw and Conn is down. 

The waiters are going crazy.


		He's taking the count, four, five, six, seven, 
he's on his back, eight, nine, he's getting up, 
no! The referee says it's over. The bout has 
stopped.

The waiters are all jumping up and down when the galley door opens. MR.
COOPER, the white man in charge of the kitchen, pops his head in.


		What in hell's going on?

	In a moment's notice Tully and the others have resumed their customary 
servient roles.


		Nothing, Mr. Cooper.


		Got a lot of hungry customers out there.


		Yes sir, Mr. Cooper, soup done finished.


		On my way, Mr. Charlie.

	Cooper eyes him narrowly.


		The name is Mr. Cooper and don't you forget it. 
Mr. Cooper.


		The winner and still champion, Joe Louis, but 
what a fight Billy Conn gave.



43	OMIT

44	OMIT

45	INT. A PASSENGER TRAIN - DAY 

As Malcolm hefts his sandwich basket and a large container of coffee 
down the aisle, hawking as he goes.


		Get your good haaaam and cheeeeese sandwiches. 
I got coffee, I got cake and I got ice cream 
too. Right chere.



				BLADES 
		Hey, boy. Gimme a cheese on white and coffee.

	Malcolm's mood is exuberant: the fight is still in his ears. He makes 
the delivery with a flourish and a smile.


		Yes, sir. Best in the house.


		You mighty pleased with yourself, boy.


		Yes, sir. I aims to please.


		I like you, boy.


pushes it in Blades' face. 

45B	BACK TO THE PASSENGER CAR 

Normality again: Malcolm finishes serving him with complete servility. 
He pulls out a bill.


		Keep the change.

	And takes a satisfying bite out of his thin sandwich. 

46	EXT. THE RAILROAD TRACKS IN HARLEM - P.M. 

As the Clipper surfaces in Harlem, pulls up to the 125th Street 
station.



	Malcolm, out of uniform and dressed in his zoot suit, comes down from 
the Park Avenue station in Harlem. He is hit with the sights and sounds. 
Everything delights him: the noise, the lights, the women, the pimps, 
the signs, the windows, the crowds, the laughter, the music.





50	OMIT

51	ANGLE - CROWD 

A CROWD OF PEOPLE run by Malcolm yelling and screaming.


		The Brown Bomber, The Brown Bomber, Joe Louis, 
the heavyweight champion of the world. Joe got 
the belt back. Lawd have mercy. Great day in 
the morning.



He runs after them.

50B 	EXT. 125TH AND LENOX AVENUE

	All traffic has stopped, there is a huge spontaneous celebration going 
on. Black folks are everywhere, it seems as if all of Harlem is out on 
the streets. The citizens of Harlem are hugging, kissing, drinking, 
dancing, folks are hanging from street lamps, yelling out their 
windows, holding up hand-made JOE LOUIS banners, everyone has great 
reason to be joyous. The heavyweight champion of the world is a BLACK 
MAN -- JOE LOUIS, THE BROWN BOMBER, he has regained his championship.



	Malcolm quickly looks at his watch, he's running late for his train, as 
he fights his way through the crowd like a salmon going upstream, the 
CAMERA CRANES up to see him eventually get lost in a sea of BLACK 
HUMANITY "cutting loose." 

								FADE OUT.



56-	OMIT 





	Malcolm, newly conked and sharp as a tack (zoot suit, trouser crease 
like a knife's edge, orange knob-toed shoes) walks toward his goal: 
Small's Paradise.

	The street is crowded with PEOPLE, KIDS and HUSTLERS.


		Slow down, daddy, what's your hurry? Lemme show 
you somepin brand new.

	Malcolm smiles "No thanks" keeps moving.


		Hey, man, hundred-dollar ring -- diamond; and a 
ninety dollar watch. Take the both of them for 
a quarter; twenty-five bucks.

Malcolm waves; he's not having any. Goes on.

58	EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT

	Before entering, Malcolm sharps himself a bit, picking off some lint,
cocking his hat. And enters.

59	INT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT

	The restaurant is crowded, both at the bar and at the tables beyond.
The immediate impression is of subdued well-being, of decorum, of easy 
affluence. This is the world Malcolm wants into. He digs it, drinking 
in its details.



A big man, FOX, accidentally bumps into Malcolm almost knocking over.


		The word is excuse me.


		Look, country boy, you shouldn't have been in 
my way.

	Everyone becomes quiet in the bar.

				FOX (contd) 
So what are you gonna do? Go run home to your 
Mama.

	Malcolm grabs a bottle off the bar counter and with lightning speed
brings it crashing down on Fox's head. As he lays on the floor with 
head bleeding, Malcolm kicks him in the stomach _two times_. It's done,
the fight is over and people pull him off of Fox.


		Don't ever again in life step on my Florsheims 
again, and never talk-bout my mother.




		Gimme a whiskey.

	BARTENDER pours him a double.


		I ordered a single, Jack.


		The double's on that gentleman. Jack!

	He points.

	ARCHIE AT THE TABLE - FROM MALCOLM'S POV

	The elderly man nods. He is big, he is very black. The same color as 
Malcolm's father. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	He raises his glass, toasts Archie and downs it. Then leaning into the 
bar, asks:


		Who is he, man?


		That's West Indian Archie.


		Whut's he do?

	The bartender would not normally answer this, but Malcolm is the man of 
the moment, so the bartender speaks:


		This and that.

	Malcolm nods, then looks over again at Archie -- in appreciation. 
Archie wiggles a finger for him to come over.



	Malcolm is standing.


		Sit down. We ain't fixing to eat you. You look 
brand new in town. Pretty handy with a bottle.


		He had it coming.

	Malcolm sits. There are no introductions. He just nods at SAMMY and 
	CADILLAC.


		What they call you?


		Red, and I ain't no punk.


		You better not be. Cause if a cat toe you down 
in this town, you better stand up or make 
tracks.


		Man live by his rep.


		That's a fact. What you do, boy?


		I'm working trains. Selling.


		Bet you like that shit.


		Keeps me out of the army.


		When they want your ass, won't nothing keep you 
out.


		Not this boy... I ain't fighting their war. I 
got my own. Right chere. Heard tell you're a 
good man to know.


		Heard where?


		Where I come from. Boston.

	Sammy and Cadillac are watching a little skeptically. Archie is 
flattered.


		Sombitch and I ain't never been to Beantown.


		Man's rep travels.


		How 'bout that?

	Then seeing Sammy and Cadillac's dubious visages, Archie adds:

				ARCHIE (contd) 
You ain't bullshitting me, is you, boy?


		My papa taught me one thing: don't never 
bullshit a West Indian bullshit artist.

Archie laughs. Even Sammy smiles. Cadillac still holds his judgment.


		Is your papa West Indian?


		No, my mama. She's from Grenada.


		I like you, country.


		Only where'd you get them goddam vines.


		And them shoes. Oh, my.


		Yeah, got to do something about you.


		You putting a hurtin' on my vision.

	Sammy covers his eyes. Malcolm plays off the insults.


		Where can I get a hold of you?


		YOU can't. I'll get a hold of you.


		Lemme write it down for you.

	Malcolm reaches for a pencil.


		Don't never write nothing down. File it up 
here, like I do.
(touching his head) 
'Cause if they can't find no paper they ain't 
got no proof. Ya dig?


		Yes, sir.

	Archie looks at him sharply.


		Boy, look me in the face.

	Malcolm does so.

ARCHIE (contd) 
Did you just now con me?


		Yes, sir.


		Why?


		'Cause I want in. And it don't take a lot to 
know you there, daddy.

Archie and Sammy laugh at his directness. Cadillac smiles. Archie 
pushes back his chair, about to get up. 

				ARCHIE 
		I got me a little run to make.

	Malcolm has suddenly been excluded and he wants desperately back in.


		Can I run with you, Mr. Archie?

	Archie eyes him, weighing him seriously.


		I like your heart and I like your style. You 
might just do, Little. Lessen you got to git 
back to that train job.


		I done told the man what he could do with his 
train.


		When?


		Just now.

	The three established hustlers smile at the newcomer in their midst.


		Come on, baby. We going shopping...

60	OMIT

61	OMIT

62	OMIT



	Malcolm is looking at himself in a mirror in Archie's room. He has on 
the full outfit now, together with a new white on white shirt and a 
Sulka tie. Looks great.


		Just the middle button, baby. Just the middle 
one.

	Malcolm buttons the jacket and turns around, demonstrating for Archie's 
inspection.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
You looking good, Little. Real clean. Clean as 
the Board of Health. But you missing something.


		What?


		Frisk me, baby. Give me a real pat down.

	Malcolm doesn't understand, but he senses something -- and becomes 
excited. Archie has walked over to him.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Go ahead. Do me.

	Malcolm frisks him carefully: pats his sides, his pockets, under his 
arms, his legs. Archie is clean to the touch.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
(triumphantly) 
And I'm still carrying.

He smacks the small of his back. Then, reaching under his coat, he 
takes a revolver out from the middle of his back. And hands it to 
Malcolm.



	Holding the deadly instrument, fascinated by it, hefting it, feeling 
its power.


		It's yours, baby. Put it on.

Malcolm slips it carefully into the small of his back, behind his 
trouser belt. His first gun: the feeling shines in his eyes, Bogart has 
become a black man.

ARCHIE (contd) 
How's it feel?


		Solid, daddy.


		Okay, baby. Now you outfitted. You ready to 
tackle the street?


		Let 'em come. I'm ready.

64	INT/EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS - SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS 

A FIVE DOLLAR BILL. CAMERA GOES IN for the last three digits. 

64A	STOCK MARKET BOARD at the end of a day's trading. GO IN for the last 
three numbers.




		Let us turn to the Gospel according to St. 
John. Chapter 3, Verse  83.




	Malcolm scribbles the number onto a piece of paper.



	Ringing up an amount: $2.98.




	Malcolm's hand writes out the number.



	It reads "New York to Chicago." PAN DOWN TO SHOW "Train arrives 1:05."




Archie with Malcolm as the latter writes down "1, 0, 5."


		I told you less paper, less trouble. 

				MALCOLM 
		I'm working on it.


		I keep all my numbers in my head. I've never 
written any down.

	He taps his head.  

64E 	CLOSE - FACE OF AN ELDERLY WOMAN


		I saw it in my dream. 5, 5, 5. And last week my 
sister had a dream and she hit.




		I got it from Ching Chow. It got to be 2, 5, 1.



66 	OMIT 

67 	OMIT 

68 	OMIT 

68A 	INT. MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT



	WE ARE TIGHT ON Malcolm's intense face, he is pulling on a fat joint. 
We hear BOGART blasting his way out of a police blockade. 

A phone rings.



70 	OMIT



 	There is music playing. Wordlessly, Archie sprinkles a few grains of 
fine crystal onto a round shaving mirror. He slides it across a table 
to Malcolm and hands him a short straw. Sophia sits next to Malcolm; 
she and Archie are already high. Malcolm leans over the mirror, placing 
the straw in his nostril.



	In the mirror (something satanic about him) -- as he sniffs the cocaine 
well into his nose.

A beat as he leans back waiting for the drug to take hold, Malcolm 
looks into dressing mirror.

				ARCHIE 
		It hit?


		Nnnnnnn!

Malcolm with gun in hand does his Bogart gangster imitation.


		Ain't nuthin' in the world to give you that 
real deep cool. Like girl. You there?


		I'm there, daddy. Wheww. I'm cool enough to 
kill.


		Bet you are.



	FREEZE FRAME


		Malcolm, you're so funny.

	She continues to laugh. 

	BACK TO REAL TIME.


		You got any money.

Before Sophia can answer he grabs her pocketbook, dumping all the 
contents on the floor but the dough.


		Baby, I was gonna give it to you.


		Well, bitch you move too slow.


		Sometimes you got a big ugly mouth.


		Yeah, and I'm putting my money where my ugly 
mouth is. I'm putting you back in the numbers 
right now.
(to Sophia) 
Baby, what's today?

	Sophia is not sure of this, or anything else.


		August 2nd. I think. Yeah.

	She laughs at her achievement.


		Daddy, put me down for a combination. Combinate 
me, daddy: 8, 2, 1. You got me? 8, 1, 2; 1, 8, 
		2...

	With each number he throws a bill at Archie.

				MALCOLM (contd)
1, 2, 8; 2, 8, 1.  I git 'em all?

				ARCHIE 
			(angrily taking the money) 
I'll take your goddam bet.

	Malcolm slides his tongue down Sophia's throat. 

72	OMIT

73 	OMIT

74	OMIT

75	EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT 

A miserable night, raining and cold. Malcolm turns into the bar.



	Shaking off the rain as Malcolm walks through. He is now a familiar 
figure to the bar's DENIZENS. He is met with ad lib cries: "Hey, 
Little," "Have a taste," from the men; and from the women: "Come here, 
sugar," "Where you been?"

	Malcolm acknowledges the greetings, strolls down in the bar. It's 
immediately clear that a subtle change has come over him. He is no 
longer the neophyte but a well-groomed, smooth, fully polished hustler.

	ANGLE - BOOTH 

Malcolm sits into the booth and motions for the waitress.



	A fine copper tan waitress comes to him.


		I thought you said we were going to the movies 
last night.


		I say a lot of things.


		And like a fool I believe it.


		Do your job, Get me a bourbon on the rocks and 
a pack of Lucky's.

	Honey stares at him.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
I said now.

	She leaves. He leans his head back against the booth --


		Daniel come in yet, Honey?

	Malcolm turns his head sharply at the sound of the voice. It's 
familiar, a sound from the seemingly distant past. He looks toward the 
bar and sees the women who asked the question.



	It's Laura, but not the Laura we last saw. She is still young, still 
vulnerable, but she is bolder, more self-assured, more vividly dressed.
She is unaware of Malcolm.


		Ain't that him now?

	ANGLE FAVORING DANIEL. He is a young, cocky, nervous, gingerbread 
colored boy who comes over to her quickly. He goes to the corner of the 
bar and quickly grabs Laura's neck and kisses her hungrily.


		Hey, gorgeous, how you been? Waiting long? 
Lemme see you. Wow!

It's obvious he's a junkie. And in need of a fix. QUICK!



	Honey places his drink and cigarettes before him. He's watching, taking 
it all in immediately. Laura is clearly crazy about Daniel. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	He looks, then belts down his drink. 

	CLOSER - LAURA AND DANIEL 

Daniel motions to her pocketbook and she takes out a five-dollar bill. 
He grabs it, and bolts for the door. 

	WITH MALCOLM AND HONEY 

She has been watching Malcolm.


		You know that gal?

				MALCOLM 
		Mind your own goddamn business ... She comes in 
a lot?


		'Bout every other night, Red.


		With him?

Honey nods.

 				MALCOLM (contd) 
She know?


		If she got eyes, she do.



Walking toward the door, looking for Daniel. She leaves the bar. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM AND HONEY


		Is she hooking?


		Not yet. But the way things going, that boy 
gonna turn her out any day.

	Malcolm smacks the table in frustration.

				HONEY (contd) 
You stuck on her?



Malcolm's glass on the table is trembling. 

				MALCOLM 
		Shut up, bitch.

He raises his arm to hit her and it is held back before it can find its
mark.


		Don't do that.

	Archie is standing above him. Malcolm nods, and Archie lets his arm go; 
standing next to him is Sophia.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Honey, he didn't mean it.

Archie wiggles his fingers and Honey goes, but not before throwing 
daggers at Malcolm and Sophia. Archie sits down, takes out a cigar. For 
a good beat there is a coolness between them. Then Malcolm reaches over 
and lights Archie's cigar. Sophia stares at her man, he then motions 
for her to sit down beside him.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Thanks. You got it. Who's beating on you, Red? 
You looking a little up tight.

The father-son thing is back, but Malcolm will never again be the 
student.


		Daddy, where's my money?


		What you talking?


		You owe me six big ones.

	Archie looks at him, non-comprehending.


		1, 2, 8 hit, didn't it?


		You din't have no 1, 2, 8.


		Was you that high? Old man, I threw the slats at
you. I said to combinate me.


		You never had it.


		The bitch was there.

	Archie doesn't even look at Sophia.


		Shit, what else she gonna say?


		Then skip it, man. But you slipping, baby. You 
done slipped.

	Archie is controlling himself. Everyone in Small's is all ears, a
falling out between Malcolm and Archie -- their reps are at stake.

	ANGLE. Archie looks at Sammy. Sammy is neutral. Archie digs in his 
pockets, comes up with a roll. He peels off six $100 bills and throws 
them on the table in front of himself, as he gets up.


		Oh, sit down, man. What you tasting? I'm buying.


		I ain't drinking hot piss with you. Come on, Sam.


		Be right there.

	Archie goes.

SAMMY (contd) 
Twenty-two years he didn't never forget no 
number.


		Got to be a first time, daddy-o.


		He gonna, check the collector he turn into. His 
rep is on the line, boy, and so's yours. If you 
lying, one of you is dead.


		Ain't gonna be this mother.

	Sammy goes.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Come on, sweetlips, I got us some g-i-r-l, 
girl. Let's you and me fly.





78A	OMIT 

79	OMIT 

80	OMIT 

81	OMIT

82	OMIT 

83	OMIT

84	OMIT 

85	EXT. ONYX CLUB - NIGHT 

The well-known 52nd Street nightspot features Billie Holiday. A 
stand-up cutout of her is outside.



	This is a plush nightclub, with a mixed black and white AUDIENCE. Some
of the hustlers from Small's are in evidence. 

	CLOSE - BILLIE

Lady Day starts into "YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT LOVE IS."

	ANGLE - TABLE

Malcolm and Sophia high as a kite and on the town. 

	CLOSE - ARCHIE

He makes his way toward Malcolm's table. There is murder in his eyes.

	ANGLE - TABLE


		You're a damn liar.



				ARCHIE (contd) 
You _took_ me, you bastard, and now I'm taking 
you.




		It's me or you, ain't it, Pops?


		You know it.


		I'll give you back the 600.


		I don't want your money.


		I'm wearing, Archie.


		There's two guns on you.

	His eyes gesture. Malcolm looks: 

	MALCOLM'S P0V 

Sammy at the nearby bar: his hand in his coat pocket.

	CLOSE - ARCHIE

	His hand is also in his pocket.


		And every cat's watching, ain't they? It's a 
toe-down.


		That's what it is. Walk on out.


		Let Billie finish.


		Now.

	Archie backs away from the table, his gun on Malcolm. 

ANGLE. As Sammy moves a step toward Malcolm, Malcolm rises in his seat.


		You had the number.


		Baby, I got to let this old man win. Keep the 
faith, and tell Billie I'll see her later.



	She knows what's going on.

	ANGLE - Sammy and Archie are walking behind Malcolm, when he pushes a 
waitress into their path with drinks flying everywhere, Malcolm darts 
away.

87	INT. ENTRANCE TO THE TOILET 

He races into the men's room.

ANGLE. Archie and Sammy run after him.



There is an open window. Archie is leaning out, looking both ways. 

89	EXT. OUTSIDE THE MEN'S ROOM WINDOW - NIGHT FROM ARCHIE'S POV

	A tiny alleyway. No one is visible.

				ARCHIE 
		The dirty yellow rat bastard.




		Don't push it. You way ahead. You back on top. 
That boy loves you, man.


		What you say?


		He gave it to you, Archie. He did.



	Malcolm comes running out of an alleyway and onto the street. He stops 
to catch his breath, to regain his composure. He is shook up, 
frustrated, but mostly saddened. He then runs down the block and into a 
	CLOSEUP.




	CLOSE - EARL

Earl is sitting up in bed, he wakes his sleeping wife Louise, next to 
her is a baby in a crib, another child. Malcolm sleeps between Earl and 
her.



Outside the house are 5 members of THE BLACK LEGION. They are dressed 
in the style of the KKK, but in black sheets rather than white. WE SEE 
gasoline cans being passed around.


		Somebody out there. Wake the children. 

Earl starts to put on his overalls and reaches for his gun which sits 
on a nearby chair when an explosion of flames greets the house.

				EARL (contd) 
Everybody out. OUT! OUT! Get the kids. 

	ANGLE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM 

Flames roar through the room and the Little kids are hysterical. Louise 
rushes in and pushes them past the fire, she has infant in hand covered 
in a blanket.



91C 	EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

	The entire house is in flames. The Little family stands in front of it, 
just out of harm's way. 

	ANGLE - BLACK LEGION 

They sit on their horses watching the results of their work. 

	CLOSE - BLACK LEGION LEADER


		Boy, good thing we're good Christians. Nigger, 
it's time for you to leave this town.




		This here is 'pose to be a free country.




		Rev, we warned you 'bout that Garvey preaching, 
stirring up the good nigras here. Boy, next 
time you're a dead nigger.

	CLOSE - EARL

				EARL 
		I ain't a boy. I'm a man, and a real man don't 
hide behind no bedsheets.

	Earl takes his pistol out from behind his back and fires above their 
heads.

				EARL (contd) 
Take these here bullets for dem sheets.



	The bullets send the Black Legion flying into the glorious D.W. Griffith
moonlit night. 

	ANGLE - HOUSE 

The burning house collapses behind the Little family. 

	ANGLE - EARL AND LOUISE


		Earl, I know you a better shot than that. You 
shoulda killed 'em all, shot 'em dead.


		Just wanted to scare 'em, they won't be 
bothering us no more.



	Young Malcolm stares at his father while the house still burns behind 
him, no doubt drawing on the great courage displayed by his father.


		They won't be here no time soon. I'm a MAN! 

91D	EXT. STREET - LANSING - NIGHT (REMEMBERED TIME)

	It's raining cats and dogs and it's foggy. We hear a big thud, then a 
grunt and Earl Little falls across the trolley tracks, the sound of men 
running away is heard in the distance. 

	ANGLE - A STREETCAR APPROACHES



He has been beaten to a bloody pulp.





He opens his one good eye. 

	CLOSE - STREETCAR MOTORMAN 

He sees something ahead in the fog and rain. 

	ANGLE - MOTORMAN'S POV 

	CLOSE - HAND REACHES BRAKE LEVER 

	CLOSE - STREETCAR WHEELS STOPPING, SPARKS FLY 

	CLOSE - MOTORMAN 

Winces and then makes the Sign of the Cross. 

	ANGLE - LONG SHOT OF PASSENGERS 

Jumping out of the streetcar to attend to Earl.


		Somebody get a doctor.


		No doctor, get him a priest.


		My father's skull, on one side was crushed in, 
and then laid across some tracks, for a 
streetcar to run him over. His body was cut 
almost in half. My father, Earl Little lived 
two and a half hours in that condition. Negroes 
were stronger than they are now.



	Shorty is driving with Sophia in the front seat. Malcolm is in the 
back. They are in the country -- outside New York.


		Man, I'm glad we got you out of there. With 
West Indian Archie on your ass, your name on 
the wire -- Boston the best goddam place in the 
world for you -- things are too hot and it's 
not even summer.

	Malcolm has withdrawn within himself. He takes out a packet of cocaine 
and sniffs it.


		We'll take it easy. I got a place fixed up on 
Harvard Square. How's that sound?


		Yeah. Cool it and lay dead for a while, Homeboy. 
And don't worry none.

	The drug takes hold. Malcolm is out of it.

				SHORTY (contd) 
I'll stake you, baby. I got my band. I'm 
blowing great sax. Hell, you ain't even heard 
us--

	He and Sophia keep talking it up, trying to bolster Malcolm. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	Stoned, his nose running, Malcolm stares out of the window at the
receding landscape. FREEZE FRAME.


		Like every hustler I was trapped. Cats that 
hung together trying to find a little security, 
to find an answer -- found nothing. Cats that 
might have probed space or cured cancer -- 
(Hell, Archie might have been a mathematical 
genius) -- all victims of whitey's social order.

	Music of a dance combo heard in BG.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
Three things I was always scared of: a job, a 
bust and jail. I realized then I wasn't afraid 
of anything. I didn't care.





	Shorty, Sophia and PEG face Malcolm -- stoned in a chair. PEG is 17,
Sophia's kid sister and Shorty's date.


		You got to eat somethin', Red.


		You want eggs, baby?


		Yeah and get a slave, too, huh, baby?


		I ain't doing bad.


		Man, the name musicians ain't got shit. How you 
gonna have something? I need a stake, a bundle, 
a grand. My woman can't afford it; my homey 
ain't got it. How about you baby? What you got?

	Peg smiles, afraid of Malcolm.


		Jesus, Red, she's just a kid.


		Jesus ain't got nothin' to do with this. 

Shorty eyes him with amazement. The degree of Malcolm's depravity 
surprises even him.


		Surprise you, baby? Well, that's the way it is. 
What kind of scratch you got on you? Turn out. 
Let me have it. All of you--

	Glances exchanged among Shorty, Sophia and Peg. Shorty reaches into his 
pocket.



Malcolm with Sophia, Shorty and Peg around him.

				MALCOLM 
		We gone rob this town blind. Anybody want out 
say so. 

Nobody answers; they'll go with Malcolm.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Okay. I got the stake and I got a fence. I need 
a driver.


		How about Rudy?


		Who's Rudy? 

				SHORTY 
		Yeah, Rudy.

								JUMP CUT:

95A 	SAME LOCATION - LATER

	RUDY is with them. He is a good-looking, very-light skinned black, 
tough as they come.


		I'm half wop, half nigger and ain't afraid of 
no one.


		What can you do?

	They are in the process of appraising each other, seeing which one has 
the bigger penis.


		You name it, feller.


		Rudy does catering. Rich joints on Beacon Hill.


		That ain't bad.


		Tell him about Baldy.


		Yeah. This rich ofay, like he's 60. I give him 
a bath on Friday.

	Peg and Sophia are listening, a little horrified.

				RUDY (contd) 
Then I put him to bed and pour talcum powder on 
him like a baby. He gets his jollies off.


		So what about him?


		So? The man got silver, china, rugs--


		Might be all right.


		Might be, shit. Man, I know this town. I got my 
own fences. Who the hell are you? Who put you 
in charge?

	Malcolm smiles easily.


		You want to be the head man?


		That's right.


		Head nigger in charge?


		I'm the man.


		Okay, baby. Let's flip for it. Flip this.

	He takes out his gun, a .38 revolver. He dumps the shells on the table, 
then reinserts one shell and twirls the barrel.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
I'll flip first.

	He puts the revolver to his own head.


		Don't.

	Malcolm squeezes the trigger. It clicks. Now he twirls the barrel again 
and hands the gun to Rudy.


		Your flip, baby.

Rudy is staring at him; so are they all. Malcolm puts the gun to his 
temple again.


		Red, for God's sake-- 

He pulls the trigger a second time. Click. Now he twirls it again.


		Christ, Red, no--

				PEG 
		I can't stand it. 

Malcolm puts the gun to Rudy's head.


		Your turn, Rudy. You want me to flip for you?


		Jesus Christ, no. Okay, okay. You got it, you 
got it! You're the boss. 

A beat.


		Don't never try to cross someone who ain't 
afraid to die.


		You the man!

	Nodding accord from Rudy and Shorty. Sophia can hardly stand.


		All right. We'll start with Old Talcum Powder. 
You draw the house, where everything is. You 
and Peg go out and buy them tools like I told 
you. We hit tonight on account of in the 
daytime some of us got that high visibility. 
Ya dig?

	Rudy is at a table drawing a diagram; the girls have left. Shorty and 
Malcolm alone at a window.


		What did you do, Homey, palm it?


		Yeah.

He breaks open the gun -- the bullet is in the next slot to be fired. 

MALCOLM (contd) 
Palmed it right in the goddam chamber. 

				SHORTY 
		Jesus Christ, Homey, you are nuts. 

Malcolm starts laughing: a silent, hysterical laugh. 

96	EXT/INT. A BEACON HILL HOUSE - NIGHT

	The robbery, IN QUICK CUTS: 

--A door lock is picked by Sophia.

96A	--Pencil flashlight passes an upstairs window. 

96B	--Rudy in the car.

96C	--Silver removed from a drawer by Shorty. 

96D	--Peg walking down the street, as lookout. 

96E	--Malcolm takes off his shoes.


wallet from within inches of his pillow. Then, more boldly, picks up 
the man's hand and removes a ring from one of his fingers. Shorty 
watching with bated breath, he's about to have a heart attack.



	A Boston matron, MRS. CRAWFORD, is showing the girls her collection of 
U.S. silver. In a fine New England home.


		Beacon Hill survey.


		We're doing a survey for the Athenaeum Society 
-- We wondered if you'd permit us to include 
your collection in the catalog of Great New 
England Antiques--?


		Now these are my prizes. My Paul Revere silver 
coffee service.




		Lovely, just lovely.

	Sophia is casing the room carefully as the matron continues.


		And my husband's collection of scrimshaw should 
be included.


		May we see it?


		Won't you step this way?



98	OMIT 

98A	OMIT

101	INT. A COURTROOM - DAY 

The prisoners face the bench: Peg, Sophia, Shorty, Rudy and Malcolm.


		The average first offender gets two years for 
burglary. We were all first offenders. That's 
what Sophia and Peg drew--


		Two years in the Women's Reformatory at 
Framingham.


		But our crime wasn't burglary. It was balling 
white girls. They gave us the book.


		Burglary, count one -- 8 to 10 years; count two, 
8 to 10 years; count three, 8 to 10 years...

	He continues giving them 8 to 10 years, behind Malcolm's comment: 

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X 
		Fourteen counts of 8 to 10 years.


		The sentences to run concurrently.


		Shorty thought he hit us with 114 years till I 
explained what concurrently meant. It meant a 
minimum sentence of 10 years hard labor at the 
Charlestown State Prison. The date was February 
1946. I wasn't quite 21. I had not yet begun to 
shave.

	CAMERA HAS GONE IN for a TIGHT CLOSE SHOT of Malcolm's face: a hardened 
hustler, pimp, dope peddler and now jailbird at the ripe old age of 20.  
	FREEZE FRAME.

								CUT TO BLACK.





	It is the afternoon lockup: about 3:30 P.M. The line of PRISONERS 
stands in front of their cells, as two guards, WILKINS and BARNES, one 
white, one black, slowly walk past the P.M. check. 

The procedure is routine, done without emotion, as it is done three 
times a day: the black guard calls out the prisoner's name, the 
prisoner answers with his number, then steps into his cell. Whereupon 
the white guard slams the door shut and locks it.


		Jackson.




	Door is slammed and gate locked. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Each time a gate is locked his tension increases. His face is a mask 
hiding his fury, violence and the hunger of an advanced junkie who has 
not had a fix in over a week.


		Crichlow.




	Same procedure.

	ANGLE. SHOOTING PAST MALCOLM, FAVORING TWO OTHER PRISONERS. The guards 
are approaching Malcolm's cell. Past Malcolm are two experienced 
PRISONERS who have been watching Malcolm during the scene. They whisper 
surreptitiously without moving their bodies, and barely moving their 
lips. One of the prisoners is PETE, a huge barrel of a man, a lifer --
beaten by the system and a lifetime of incarceration. The other is 
BEMBRY, a man of no great physicality, but who possesses immediately 
the gift of leadership. It is clear that Pete and others look up to him 
with great respect.


		Looka Satan.


		I see him.

	Bembry's language is very unhip. He speaks carefully. He respects words 
and he respects himself, something which sets him apart from all the 
other prisoners.


		He bout to bust.


		No, he's not gonna bust. But he's not gonna fix 
his face to please them, neither.

ANGLE. The check-in has reached the man next to Malcolm.

				GUARD WILKINS 
		Harrington.





		Yeah. Lucky Seven.

	Door slammed and locked. 

	CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM 

The guards are now in front of him.


		Little.

	Malcolm doesn't move.


		State your number.

	Malcolm doesn't answer, doesn't blink.


		Little.

	ANGLE. Bembry in the FG of the scene. 

				BEMBRY 
		He's a new fish, Mr. Barnes. Give him a break.

	It's a bold step by Bembry and the prisoners look over at him with
admiration. Barnes accepts the irregularity and calls over to Bembry.

				GUARD BARNES 
		0kay, I'll give him a break. Now state your 
number, Little.




		I forgot it.



Shaking his head in anguish. He knows what's coming. 

ANGLE. Barnes makes a small gesture and Wilkins seizes Malcolm, 
grabbing his head and uniform at the same time. Stenciled on the chest 
of his faded dungarees is Malcolm's number. The guard bends Malcolm's 
head to the number, shoving the material in Malcolm's face.


		Can you read, boy? Thass your number.


		Now say it.


		I'm Malcolm Little, not no goddam number.


		Oh, yes you is, baby; thass all you is.

	And slams Malcolm hard. He slumps to the floor.


		Two days in the hole. Take him.

	Wilkins drags Malcolm off as Barnes resumes the roll call.

				GUARD BARNES (contd) 
Burnham.


		A 551613, sir.





	Only the faintest light comes into the hideous room, which consists of 
a mattress and a slop bucket. If Malcolm were to stretch out his arms, 
he could touch both walls. He lies half on the stone floor, half on the
mattress.

	A clang as the heavy door is opened.


		Time's up. Get on your feet.

	Malcolm stands.

				GUARD CONE (contd) 
Little, state your number.

	A beat as Malcolm stares at the man, refusing to answer.

				GUARD CONE (contd) 
You just drew two more days.

	And slams the door shut. 

104	INT. SOLITARY - NIGHT

	It is almost pitch black. We can almost smell the stench of the room. 
Malcolm sits stony-faced, his back against a wall. 

				TRUSTEE'S VOICE
		Water.

	The long spigot of a watering can is pushed through an opening in 
the cell door. Malcolm, animal-like, leaps at it and bends the spout, 
wrenching it off in his fury.



106	INT. SOLITARY CELL - DAY 

	TWO-SHOT - A WHITE CHAPLAIN AND MALCOLM 

				CHAPLAIN GILL 
		Do you know what a friend you have in Jesus, 
son?


		Preacher, take your tin Jesus and the Virgin 
Mary, both, and shove 'em.

	Door slam.



Malcolm is alone at the bars: the hope of freedom filling his mind.

	Malcolm pulls at the bars, tries to shake them in impotent fury. He 
pounds the walls. Empty, sick, defeated, his nails scratching the 
walls, he slides to the floor of the cell.

It is the low point of his life: nowhere to turn, nothing to hope for.



	Guard Cone is shaking him into consciousness.


		All right, Little. Get up.

	Malcolm just about makes it. The guard is in half-focus. 

GUARD CONE (contd) 
State your number.

	He is beaten.




	A shower is heard.

109 	INT. SHOWER ROOM - DAY

	Malcolm stands with bowed head as the hot water cascades over his 
broken body. He lets it run and run, but it cannot really touch his 
problems. On a nearby bench are his clothes, his towel and the makings 
for a conk: lye, Vaseline, comb, etc.

	He turns for a moment as he sees he is being watched by someone. It's 
Bembry standing nearby. Malcolm turns away, trying to find solace in 
the water. He wants no part of the world or anyone, just to be left 
alone.


		I know how you feel. Like you want to lay down 
and die.

	Malcolm shows no flicker of interest or understanding.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
I brought you something.

	He puts down a small matchbox on the bench next to Malcolm's things. 
Malcolm eyes him like a snake -- but the punishment has reduced him to 
deep insecurity and his belligerence is more cautious than angry.


		Who the hell are you?


		Put it in a cup of water. It's nutmeg.


		Man, what do you want?


		You need something. It's not a reefer, but 
it'll help some.


		Man, get outa my face. I ain't nobody's punk.

	But he steps out of the shower, fills a tin cup with water and empties 
the contents of the matchbox into it. And drinks it down quickly.


		Sit down or it might knock you down.

	Malcolm sits, toweling himself as the spice hits him. For the first, he 
smiles; this is the first relief he has tasted in prison. He at Bembry 
wonderingly, unable to figure him out.


		If you ain't trying to punk me, what's your 
hype?


		I can show you how to get out of prison. And 
it's no hype.


		Talk, daddy, I'm listening. Hey that ain't bad. 
You got some more?


		That's the last stuff you'll ever get from me.


		What did you give it to me for then?


		'Cause you needed it. 'Cause you couldn't hear 
me without it.

	This is a new breed of cat; Malcolm has never met anyone like him. He 
eyes him closely, as he slips into his clothes.


		What in the hell are you talking about?

	He begins to conk his hair, but is paying attention to what Bembry is 
saying.


		I think you got more sense than any cat in this 
prison. How come you are such a fool?

	Malcolm looks over, piqued.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Nobody can bust out like Bogart does it, in the
movies. Because even if you get out, you are 
still in prison.

	Malcolm is putting the conk into his hair now.


		You ain't lying.

				BEMBRY 
		When you go busting your fists against a stone 
wall, you're not using your brains. Cause 
that's what the white man wants you to do. Look 
at you.

	These last words are spoken sharply with disgust. Malcolm turns his 
hands massaging the conk into his hair.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Putting all that poison in your hair.


		Man, you been locked up too long, everybody 
conks. All the cats.


		Why? Why does everybody conk?


		Cause I don't want to walk around with my head 
all nappy, looking like--


		Like what? Looking like me? Like a nigger?! 
Why don't you want to look like what you are? 
What makes you ashamed of being black?


		I ain't said I'm ashamed.

	He turns the water on to wash out the conk -- which has begun to burn. 
Bembry restrains him, holding his arm.


		Leggo. I got to wash it out.


		Let it burn. Maybe you'll hear me then.

	But it is burning now.


		Man, you better get off me.

	He wrenches away from Bembry and puts his head in the water.


		Sure, burn yourself, pain yourself, put all 
that poison into your hair, into your body -- 
trying to be white.


		Man, I don't want to hear all that.


		I thought you was smart. But you just another 
one of them cats strutting down the avenue in 
your clown suit with all that mess on you. Like 
a monkey. And the white man sees you and he 
laughs. He laughs because he knows you ain't 
white.

	Malcolm is drying his hair, finishing his conk. But some of what Bembry 
has said disturbs him.


		Who are you?

	Malcolm is completely humiliated. Bembry sees this and stops the 
barrage.


		The question is, who are you? You are in the 
darkness, but it's not your fault. Elijah 
Muhammad can bring you into the light.


		Elijah who?


		Elijah Muhammad can get you out of prison. Out 
of the prison of your mind. Maybe all you want 
is another fix. I thought you were smart.

	And he is gone. Malcolm stands looking after him, a long thoughtful 
moment. He is pulling the comb through his hair.



	PRISONERS are working on a beltline that stamps out and finishes 
license plates. Bembry is on the stamping machines, working as he talks 
to the other prisoners. Malcolm is painting the plates, a little 
removed from Bembry, but listening with interest. Barnes, with rifle, 
idles by a window.

	A whistle sounds, ending the work shift. The inmates quickly file out 
into the yard. Bembry stays. Malcolm is half decided.


		You taking the yard?


		I'm staying.

	Barnes gestures to Malcolm.


		Me too.

He goes.


		What you sniffing around for? I told you I gave 
you your last fix.


		I ain't never seen a cat like you. Ain't you 
scared talking like that in front of an ofay?


		What's he gonna do to me he ain't already done?


		You the only cat don't come on with that 
"Whatcha know, daddy" jive; and you don't cuss 
none.


		I respect myself. A man cuss because he hasn't 
got the words to say what's on his mind.


		Tell you this: you ain't no fool.


		Don't con me. Don't try...

				MALCOLM 
		Okay, okay.

				BEMBRY 
		Don't con me. 


		What do you do with your time?


		I read. I study. Because the first thing a 
black man has to do is respect himself. Respect 
his body and his mind. Quit taking the white 
man's