













saint and the sinner is that every 
saint has a past and every sinner 
has a future.  
- O. Wilde - 



Shan Ho hills as we SUPER  




IGNATIUS ORPHANAGE.  



sorcerer in uhhm... Sumatra.  



O'NEAL walks amongst them. A career Jesuit with razor eyes and thin lips. An 
awful man.  




And what happened to him Francis? 





miracles. When Simon Magus saw the 
miracles he offered disciple Peter 
gold for the powers of God.  



Michael Quinn? 


exhibits no fear in his huge, intelligent eyes. Father O'Neal hates this boy.  


Father O'Neal snatches his bible, revealing a SECOND BOOK hidden behind it.  


TEMPLAR." 










room and out into the corridor.  


to the door. Grouped in the threshold, straining for a good view, they watch 
as -- 


has a stained-glass window.  


his hand, the boy beneath him. Down the switch comes. Again. And again.  
The boy YELPS. And again and again and again... and now he SCREAMS...


merciless descent of the switch...  



his shirt is striped with blood.  


paces amongst the benches. Father O'Neal watches from the side.  



home and another into poverty - that 
is but part of God's design. All of 
you are unwanted, put here because 
of the sins of your unwedded 
mothers. The church has fed you and 
educated you. Given you a home. A 
name. An identity.  


stern-faced Jesuit.  









little cur, you will sit here 
without food until you appreciate 
your namesake.  


lunch away, Mr. Fong.  


locks the door. Father Yin exits, followed by Father O'Neal and Mr. Fong, 
leaving -- 







evening meal.  










a hundred boys stare at Michael Quinn.  



grouped around Michael Quinn's bunk. One boy has his hand clamped to 
Michael's, mouth, the others are wailing on him... and outside -- 









welted. Nothing has changed.  




Again, the FOOD CART goes into the kitchen. The Fathers and Mr. Fong exit.  
The boys rise, moving toward Michael Quinn. They're going to kick the living 
shit out of him.  





The other boys, curious, follow.  


On a counter next to the door are EATING UTENSILS. Michael Quinn picks up 
A FORK. He bends the fork's tines. Inserts it in the lock.  
He fishes around for a second. Nothing happens. He pulls the fork out, 
rebends it, and inserts it in the lock again. And CLICK.. ..the lock pops.  


The hungry boys go for the food cart, scooping up eggs and sausage. They're 
ravenous. Francis, mouth full of sausage, beams at Michael Quinn.  



Simon Magus the sorcerer.  







MR. FONG stands in the doorway.  
Father O'Neal and Father Yin enter quickly.  
The boys back away from the food cart.  











youngest boy, surrounded by his new confederates, smiles slightly. His eyes 
glint.  







the vast square at the foot of Nevsky Prospect Boulevard. The Winter Palace 
and Hermitage loom in the b.g.  
500,000 ST. PETERS BURGERS' stand shoulder-to-shoulder, listening to a 
SPEECH. INTERNATIONAL T.V. CREWS (the BBC, CNN, etc.) are transmitting 
the event.  



promised a new age. The result? 
Tyranny. Poverty. The darkest 
years in our history.  


image projected on a huge screen (like the Sony screen in Times Square) 
above and behind him.  


voice cutting the night air.  



promised a new age. The result? An 
end to communism. Democracy. A 
free economy. And what else? 
Chaos.  


government run by charlatans. And 
they are in league together! 
Thieves! Traitors! 


citizens of Russia, the salt of this 
country, this must end! 


forefathers.  

(the Russian anthem before the Bolsheviks).  


Russians...  






The rally across town is a distant glow.  
We hear the singing crowd.  


IN BLACK climbs up, securing a sling to the window frame in which to sit. A 
bulky BACKPACK hangs from shoulder straps.  
He produces a diamond cutter; begins carving a man-sized aperture in the 
window. Below, in the foyer  



NEWS on a small television. Wolf Blitzer is reporting live from the rally.  




Bernard, that Russia's present 
leadership, including President 
Victor Karpov, is connected with the 
country's underworld.  


Nikko Hotel's core is hollow, like the Hilton in New York; thus, the ballroom's 
"ceiling" is 12 stories up.  


businessman, HIRO MYAKI, clinks his glass. The guests pay attention.  
During this we focus on a CHAMPAGNE SERVER moving toward the lobby 
elevators with a full tray.  



Corporation looks forward to many 
profitable days ahead. To our new 
manufacturing facility in St.  
Petersburg. To the new Russia! 





hotel and plunging inside after it.  



miraculously -- 






window stuck to his feet.  


Everybody's beaming, toasting, congratulating, etc., totally oblivious to THE 
MAN IN BLACK, 12 stories up, inching hand-over-hand across the roof 
superstructure.  



TWO JAPANESE SECURITY GUARDS, armed with automatic rifles, walk their 
shift directly below him. They pass a wall mounted television, also carrying 
the NEWS: 




Michael Romanov, age 32, French born 
and Oxford educated, descendent of 
the last czar, is a political force 
to be reckoned with.  


disappear around a corner.  
The Man in Black hangs from the girder with one hand; with the other he 
yanks the piece of window off his foot-mounted suction cups.  
He drops to the mezzanine. He rests the glass against the wall. He peers over 
the balustrade at the party below. Satisfied, he removes his hood, ENDING TITLES.  


as such or be very sorry you ever met him. It is unfortunate that a man of 
Templar's various talents can be so lacking. How? 


gives no quarter. Ever. Though his outward self glows with life, he is dead inside.  





CORPORATION. At the entrance, secured in a niche, is a BRONZE BUST OF 
HIRO MYAKI.  


corridor.  


Revealing ANTI -THEFT PRESSURE SENSORS.  
Templar produces a DARTGUN (the size of a flare gun, silenced, with a spool 
of steel cable attached to the top). He aims down the corridor and fires.  


above the door at corridor's end.  


something to secure it.  





He hangs from the cable, testing it. It will hold.  
He pulls out an aluminum contraption with small wheels and two handle grips.  
It's A GLIDER for the cable.  
He attaches the glider to the cable, grips the handles, and glides the length of 
the corridor.  




handles of the glider, then flops over backwards, hanging upside down.  
HIS FACE is now right next to the door handle, over which is an ELECTRONIC 
LOCK (opened by punching a code).  


and its job is to run through every possible number combination in about a 
minute and a half. Templar wires the computer to the lock with two needlelike 
ELECTRODE PROBES.  


combinations of numbers. He waits, hanging upside down. Meanwhile-- 



these guys is a riot...  
The elevator opens. The CHAMPAGNE SERVER comes out, tray in hand.  












Templar turns the door handle; pushes open the door.  
He pulls himself up. Hangs from his hands again.  
He swings his legs back and forth, getting momentum up.  
He releases from the glider and lunges inside.  



At the end of a fifty-foot mahogany table is a PAINTING OF HIRO MYAKI.  
Templar walks over to it.  





And here, where the painting was, is A SAFE.  
Templar unshoulders his backpack. He pulls out a 40-pound CARLSBAD &
RINKER industrial diamond-tipped drill, as big as a jackhammer. No finesse 
here, people.  


right through four inches of tungsten steel. He starts setting up the drill.  



lie the JAPANESE GUARDS, now unconscious. The champagne server's 
gone...  



and he's not a champagne server, but a thief and a killer, a blonde Russian 
named ILYA.  
Ilya stops just outside the interior corridor. With the GUARD'S KEYRING, he 
shuts off the anti-theft mats and moves around the corner into the corridor.  



He sees Templar's cable and glider.  



tungsten lock. This is a violent exercise. SINEWS OF METAL spit out like 
shrapnel.  


a THUD on the beautiful mahogany table. He opens the safe.  
INSIDE THE SAFE is one object: A SMALL BOX, the size of a cufflink keeper.  
Templar grabs it and opens it.  


Templar closes the box and pockets it.  





This wasn't in the plan...  












Ilya raises the handgun at Templar's head. Smiles.  
Try something: throw an extension cord on the ground. I guarantee it will 
land coiled in several places.  


cord.  
And this is not lost on Templar.  
Templar, on his knees, grabs the cord and yanks it; the coil tightens around 
Ilya's ankles. His legs fly from under him and he goes down, the gun 
clattering across the floor.  
Ilya tries to get to his feet.  
Templar floors him with a right cross.  
Templar grabs the box and his backpack and sprints across the room. Ilya 
gains his feet and grabs his gun; sprints after Templar.  





He's going out the way he came in.  
Suddenly ILYA'S HANDS are around his ankles.  
Templar falls. He's going 12 stories to his death.  
No. His fingers clutch the outside of the balustrade. Templar dangles there, 
looking up at the sadistic face of Ilya. And suddenly below -- 



balustrade above, SCREAMS. And now everybody looks up.  






knuckles.  





pocket. Hands it slowly to Ilya, who reaches over the balustrade for it...  


the balustrade.  
Ilya falls 12 stories to his death.  
No he doesn't. He falls one story and miraculously catches the balustrade 
there.  
Templar clambers up again, atop the balustrade.  
He jumps to the ceiling girder.  
Hand over hand, swinging like an acrobat, Templar's across the girder in 
seconds.  


There's one further problem. BULLETS. Ricocheting all around him. Fired by -- 


Templar reaches over his shoulder. Pulls a GUN from his backpack. To return 
fire? No, it's the DART GUN.  
Templar aims the dart gun out the aperture he cut in the window and fires.  




STAIRCASE BULKHEAD OF THE BUILDING ADJACENT TO THE NIKKO.  



He pulls out his black hood and drapes it over the taught cable. He grabs both 
ends of the hood.  
And he jumps.  



glider.  
He lands on the roof of the adjacent building.  
Templar looks around. SIRENS ARE WAILING.  
He runs across rooftops, disappearing into the St. Petersburg night.  



through the panicked crowd.  
Ten ST. PETERSBURG POLICEMEN enter.  



the window! 





building.  
Ilya curses silently. And peels away from the cops and commotion, off into 
the night.  





A STEWARDESS, young, perky, comes down the aisle pushing a 
magazine/newspaper cart.  





Note this, reader: Templar is not a super-spy, super-hero, or super-rake. He 
is a thief.  


up at the stewardess.  







look in the mirror.  









Templar resumes with his lockets.  



PASSENGERS are filing out past the Stewardess.  





winks at her. She winks back, and fingers one of the RUSSIAN LOCKETS, now 
around her neck.  








A MAN IN TRENCHCOAT falls in behind Templar.  
TWO MEN appear in front of Templar, blocking his path; the man behind 
Templar comes to his side. They are Scotland Yard men BAKER, TEAL, and INSPECTOR MACDUFF.  














while, across the room -- 


Templar turns.  







equip...  











I deal in antique....  




Your pajamas? 





recommended five miles a...  















What's your nationality this week, 
Templar? 







of.. . Yemen? You're bloody joking.  






passport flies by. Hits the wall.  





Templar doesn't blink. His expression never changes.  



with that gear and, what a surprise, a prototype 
computer chip worth quarter of a billion quid is nicked 
from the Myaki Corporation the night you arrive. We know 
you didn't fence it in Russia. Where is it? 


table before MacDuff. Two are of Templar's bags, two are of his body.  









or release me.  








He turns away, then turns back and viciously backhands Templar across the 
face; Templar's head jerks. The blow would knock most men out.  
Now Templar smiles. Like a serpant. And says calmly: 





Templar rises. Begins collecting his things.  





martini. She is tipsy. She shows it.  



Charlie, he's in the airline 
business, there's jobs there, good 
benefits too, and.. ..where was I? 


















you? Are you cute or what? I gotta 
freshen up.  





I'll polish it for you.  







her a moment.  
When she's gone he puts the locket on the table.  
He pries open the back of it with a pen-knife.  


MICRO-CHIP. Templar plucks out the chip and drops it into an envelope.  


as she returns to the table. She sits down. Looks around. Templar's gone. The 
locket's gone. The waitress appears.  



sitting 'ere? 



of the bill.  













Your room key - south penthouse as 
usual. Your suits are up from storage, 
pressed of course, and 
there's a bottle of Oban on the 
dresser.  










uncomfortable pause.  











man's bills are paid by a bank in 
Switzerland and his mailing address 
is a corporation in Lisbon. Bloody strange...  



just shy.  





screen of a modemed MINI-COMPUTER.  








new command. A new screen appears: 
















something...  
The first digit, "4," vanishes.  
A "5" appears in it's place. Now fifty-seven million.  


drinks his scotch.  
















Bridge.  











coat. He goes to the desk, where concierge Harry Winston looks up.  



Blackfriars Bridge. Midnight.  












run the front desk.  





TUGBOAT plows the river, horn BELLOWING. The lights of Southwark twinkle 
beyond.  


TWO FIGURES emerge from the fog. Templar approaches.  
One is a huge dim-wit with greasy hair, as tall and wide as a bookcase. His 
name, aptly, is ZERO.  
The other is middle-aged and strongly built. A high forehead; clipped, irongrey 
hair; square jaw and aquiline nose; deep-set, ruthless, unblinking eyes.  


demean him. He is vastly more powerful.  





you never are. It is my pleasure, 
Simon Templar. My name is...  



you want, or I keep walking.  



Suppose I want to kill you.  



trained at your head.  


someone below the bridge -- 




mack now, and yes, he has a 30.6 scoped rifle trained at Tretiak's head.  





Templar. Last night something was 
stolen in St. Petersburg. My city.  



own it.  














Locks eyes with Templar. The thief from the Nikko! 



beat them, why not join them? 
An American phrase, no? Or are you 
British? Australian? 



Get to the point.  




has worked ten years to develop a 
certain technology. I am informed 
that the technology will be made 
public at the annual nuclear science 
symposium in Washington D.C. I 
would like the plans and 
specifications for this technology. Before the symposium.  






a man on the inside.  






one and keeps no hard records of the 
technology in the lab.  



mankind's only hope after all the 
oil's gone. This guy's actually done it? 











you will need.  



dollars, half up front, half when I 
deliver. You'll hear from me.  










life's work. You have no reaction.  
Are you that cold? 










Manhattan. Pretty, charming, affluent.  



The aisles are full of Westchester women: affluent, country clubby, 
housewifey types.  
A HAND reaches for a BOTTLE OF LEMONADE (100% Natural) , bringing it 
down to the eye level of -- 


acuteness and authority in her thought, speech, and action. Debate this 
woman? Fine, but you'd better know what the hell you're talking about. Her 
stare can stop a train.  
She's casually dressed. Only her JACKET stands out.  
It's waist-cut, with a colorful diagram of protons and electrons circling a 
nucleus embroidered on the back.  




syrup. Lemon juice concentrate.  
Citric acid. Gum acacia...? 




wearing a moustache and glasses now.  
He has a bottle of LEMON JUICE in his hand.  







no preservatives.  










she looks over at -- 


his thumb. He notices Jillian.  



How are the apples? 



















Bad headache.  





"Avoid, at all cost, kumquats." 
Wonder what God had against apples.  
She gives him a funny look and turns away.  






think he shot one of these off his 
brother's head with an arrow? 










Intriguing yes, but also possibly a lunatic. She decides to take the dismissive 
route: 



questions, one, I don't know what 
God's problem was. Two, William 
Tell, like Paul Bunyon, never 
existed. And in case you're 
wondering, Isaac Newton discovered 
gravity through planetary 
observation not because one of those 
fell on his head, and I seriously doubt 
that eating one a day will keep the doctor away.  









interesting...  






She gets in.  
The car pulls out of the parking lot.  



authoritative, scholarly, Indian voice: 



nuclei meet and their protons and 
neutrons fuse together into a single 
nucleus. The fused nuclei move off 
at high speed, producing energy.  
Nuclear fusion could provide us 
with almost unlimited power.  






deuterium and lithium, and a machine 
to make them fuse under controlled conditions.  



I don't know.  


She turns down the volume and squints -- 


A ROLLS ROYCE sits on the road shoulder. As we pass the Rolls, we see 
SIMON TEMPLAR standing next to it wearing a hopeless expression.  


looks at the Rolls in the rear-view mirror. She frowns.  





reverse.  



gets out.  



She walks up to him. Together they look down at THE REAR TIRE. It's flat, a 
pancake.  














mechanical.  







They walk to the rear. Jillian opens the trunk.  
They both look down at -- .  





























called a tokamak, developed in 
Russia, essentially a doughnut 
shaped tube that contains the gases to 
be fused.  





the two gases must be heated to a 
temperature of hundreds of millions 
of degrees, and kept together for 
several seconds.  



The Tokamak's got it all backwards.  






who doesn't know a goddarnn thing 
what he's talking about. If I got 
one tenth of his funding...  


She looks out the window, grumbling. They drive on.  






Westchester County. Just stupendous.  













no preservatives.  







the company. Now I make shoes.  







this and I realize we just met, 
but I'm even-tempered, politically 
moderate, belong to no religious 
cults, have no children I know of, 
am free of communicable diseases, I 
happen to find you attractive...  



Are you asking me out on a date? 













I could have a boyfriend.  











on some island someplace? 
















deal with me: I am not particularly 
even-tempered, I'm staunchly 
liberal, belong to no 
religious cults but I do believe in God as a 
basic force of good, have no 
children because one has to have sex 
to do that and, well, let's not 
pursue that, am free of communicable 
diseases, see above, and you're an 
attractive man, if a little weird, 
and well.. .hell, why not.  


What's your name? 





couch.  
























today. Thanks again.  


stops. Turns.  









two nine eight.  





What do you know.  


and drive off. Then Templar keys open the door and enters.  



Just Templar's two CARRY-ON BAGS on the floor in front of Templar.  





Templar sits on a packing crate in the vacant living room with a glass of 
scotch, studying Jillian's life.  


gown; Jillian in a lab coat; Jillian at the beach, etc.  




NO HARD COPIES - COMPUTER SOFTWEAR 


It is two hours later.  


Jillian's life. Looks like this: 
Home state: Massachusetts 
Hometown: Milton 
Highschool: Milton Academy 
Highschool mascot: Bulldogs 
University: Harvard 
University mascot: Crimson 


boyfriends; favorite movies, colors, sports teams, hobbies, etc.  




He copies it onto a 3 1/4 disk, pulls out the disk and shuts off the minicomputer.  
He leans down and picks up a SHOE BOX. Opens it. He lifts out a WOMAN'S 
SHOE and jerks the heel, which lifts away from the sole on hinges. revealing a 
hidden compartment, in which Templar places a small transistor.  
He clicks the heel shut. THE SHOE -- 







drinking coffee, laughing, at ease. The "date" is going well.  






in America but do your own shopping, 
you talk to strange women about the history 
of apples, and you give 
a first-time date.. . shoes? 
Isn't the tradition flowers? 






beautiful. Thank-you.  


commotion. Jillian and Templar look -- 


YOUNG COUPLE seated at a table.  








Anything else? 







Maybe it made you uncomfortable.  
Maybe I should just shut up...  



Jillian never got married, chapter 
One:" I don't know where you're from. . .  






but here, if a teenage girl doesn't 
want to be a cheerleader, or drink 
'till she pukes every weekend, or 
talk endlessly on the phone every 
night about absolutely nothing, then she 
doesn't win many popularity 
contests, know what I mean? 
That pretty much took care of highschool.  






from Harvard before you turn twenty-three 
and having a social life.  









Let's just say it's high.  












It's in the eyes. I can always tell.  





the opportunity. It feels nice.  








someplace. I don't know where yet.  


up her purse and takes her wallet out. Templar sees her doing this...  



Put that away.  










Jillian smiles at Templar. [Due to his mean origins and evolution, Templar has witnessed approximately three charitable acts in his whole life, and this was 
the third.] Thus does Simon Templar smile uneasily back.  





living room into a bar alcove off the living room.  



Turn on the news. I want to catch up on that 
Russia thing.  





I've got everything.  








Party, leveled more allegations against 
President Victor Karpov. According to 
Romanov, two men, Gregor Tretiak...  


A PHOTO OF GREGOR TRETIAK has appeared on the screen.  





screen.  








Russia's underworld bosses, are 
linked to President Karpov in 
illegal enterprises...  














Oban. Have any? 



five minutes away.  












over in...a long time. And I 
happen to like you. I want to do 
this right. Okay? 






Templar walks to the window and stands there, waiting.  
We hear Jillian's car start, see the headlights.  



easy, dear.  


miniature computer screen is a detailed map of WESTCHESTER COUNTY. Two 
locations are pulsing: 1) Jillian's house and 2) a moving object, transmitted 
from a homing device, which we now see  




and we CUT BACK to the house...  



moves quickly, ruthlessly.  


tools.  
For Templar, these locks are a joke. He opens them with alarming speed. He 
pushes open the door, revealing a DESCENDING STAIRCASE. He descends.  



His eyes widen. Here we find -- 


pool) is surrounded by HUNDREDS OF TEST TUBES of various shapes and 
sizes containing chemicals.  
Templar moves through, eyes scanning everything.  
He sees JILLIAN'S COMPUTER. Walks over to it.  


The PULSING LIGHT is still moving; Jillian hasn't yet reached the liquor store.  
He turns on Jillian's monitor and hard drive. The COMPUTER SCREEN blinks 
on. We see a MENU: 
A.) Personal finances 
B.) Income tax 
C.) Things to do 
D.) Addresses 
E.) Research 


engages; this appears: 


PLEASE WAIT 




cyberspace and only you can retrieve 
it. Because only you have the code.  


it into the disk drive. He types a command; a new screen appears: 


Press any key to begin 


******* WELCOME TO THE INTERNET ******* 




after word, like this: 
-- "Massachusetts" 
-- Computer: ACCESS DENIED 
-- "Boston" -- 
-- Computer: ACCESS DENIED. 
-- "Milton" -- 
-- Computer: ACCESS DENIED 
-- "Milton Academy" 
-- Computer: ACCESS DENIED 
-- "Bulldogs" 
-- Computer: ACCESS DENIED 


crack Jillian's code. But the computer denies access to each word.  
The HOMING DEVICE suddenly BEEPS. The pulsing light has stopped, 
indicating Jillian is at the liquor store.  
Templar grimly turns back to the computer.  





She exits with a SCOTCH BOTTLE in a brown wrapper.  









back toward Jillian's house.  
Templar looks at the computer; his system continues entering words: 
"Hendrix." ACCESS DENIED. "Purple Haze." ACCESS DENIED. "Red Sox." 
ACCESS DENIED. "Celtics." ACCESS DENIED. On and on...each is met with 








die now...  
Templar's system suddenly stops. It has run through every word. Each has 
met with failure.  
TEMPLAR frowns. He yanks the system disk from the disk drive. He begins 
pacing...  





He sits and types: "Tokamak." ACCESS DENIED Templar stares at the screen 
in frustration.  


Templar concentrates with every brain cell.  
We can feel him think. He's remembering something.  







The Tokamak's got it all backwards.  




TOKAMAK. Under this he spells it backwards: KAMAKOT.  
He turns to the computer and types: "KAMAKOT" And instantly this flashes: 
ACCESS GRANTED.  





THE GENERATION OF ENERGY FROM COLD NUCLEAR FUSION 



tables, plans, specifications, etc.  
Templar pulls out the disk containing Jillian's data and shoves a fresh disk 
into the disk drive. He begins copying Jillian's research from harddrive to disk.  
He looks at the HOMING DEVICE. Christ, she's almost back.. .and indeed -- 






and rips the slip of paper from the notepad. He flicks off the computer and 
sprints across the lab, then up the stairs.  






He smiles: 








that scotch. Hey, what happened 
to the fire? 









andirons and we -- 




CAMERA PANS past Jillian's shoes on the carpet, past the Oban Scotch on the 
coffee table, now half empty, to -- 





on the brakes. Those lips oughtta be 
licensed buddy...  






going I'm gonna be the one who gets us 
both in trouble. Whew! 
















out, shoemaker.  











He turns toward his car; his face goes hard and cold.  







PALATIAL MANSION taking up a whole city block. TEN THOUSAND 
SUPPORTERS surround him. Many carry large, slogan-filled banners.  
Four THUGGISH-LOOKING MEN stand guard inside the mansion's compound, 
giving Romanov the eye. One is ZERO (Tretiak's bodyguard on Blackfriars 
Bridge).  









within the compound open the gates.  





Romanov. The limousine rolls inside the compound, the gates CLANGING 
shut.  



knows what that man does, yet the 
police don't arrest him. They 
protect him! How can this be? 
Maybe we should ask our elected 
whores in Moscow! 


the gate at -- 


they move quickly up the mansion's marble steps, dodging the thrown debris.  


ST. PETERSBURG POLICE, in riot gear, deploy from the vans.  
The police push into the crowd, wielding riot shields and batons. A melee 
breaks out, Romanov supporters versus the police.  



watching six SURVEILLANCE MONITORS (showing, at all times, certain areas of. the compound).  


CHANDELIER hangs from the domed roof fifty feet above. A spectacular 
staircase ascends to a mezzanine, with offices (formerly bed chambers) off it.  


expression. Zubov chainsmokes constantly.  








Tretiak follows Zubov to a large bank of computers.  










Submitted by: 

































this that the woman's done it.  
She may have found a source of 
unlimited energy.  



may have. Show me.  



Zubov hits the "scroll" key. The next page appears; we see the heading at the top of the page: THE CHEMICAL ENVIRONMENT FOR COLD FUSION 


Terribly wrong. We know this because of  























Russian accent, white lab coat.  



Where are you going? 



Be back in a couple hours.  











Yuri stares at the phone and -- 





Suddenly the front door opens. A WOMAN, mid-30's, pretty and well-dressed, comes out and locks the door.  
















who owns the house...  



for weddings and corporate events.  
Are you. ..interested...? 
















PRIVATE UNMARKED ACCOUNTS 




gone; he looks like himself again. In the b.g., businessmen are relaxing, reading newspapers, drinking coffee. Over the intercom: 



de Janeiro, departing at 8 a.m, 
boarding now from gate seventeen.  


Templar types in his password and waits.  
On the screen, this: 


ACCOUNT OF: TEMPLAR, SIMON 

London).  


He hasn't been paid.  



























He moves toward her and -- 

















Like some? It's really no trouble. ...  









He begins typing. The phone modem engages.  


-- This comes back: AFFIRMATIVE. 
-- Templar types: LION HAS NOT BEEN PAID. EXPLAIN. 
-- This comes back: LION'S DATA IS DEFECTIVE. 
-- Templar types: DEFINE "DEFECTIVE." 
-- This comes back: LIONS EMPLOYMENT TERMINATED.  


THE ACCOUNTANT WOMAN comes back to the table with Templar's coffee.  
Sets it before him. Smiles.  






now boarding from gate fifteen.  
I repeat, British Air Flight 74...  







The Businessman flips a page, engrossed in an article.  
He reaches back for his coffee, but takes Templar's cup.  














Templar approaches the house, eyes darting. He moves toward the door, 
unpocketing his 9mm pistol. He checks the doorknob, turning it. It's open. ...  






hand.  



He comes to the lab staircase. The door is open.  
Templar heads down the stairs.  



He looks at the document on the screen. He begins scrolling, going to the end 
this time.  
We see the graphs, tables, plans, specs., etc. Then the critical page appears: 


And under that. . . .. A NINTENDO GAME. Little spaceships are flying around chasing other little spaceships!  TEMPLAR stares at it, stunned: what he sent the Russians is essentially worthless. Templar shuts off the monitor. The screen blackens. The black screen reflects light. It reflects A PERSON coming down the stairs. A person with a gun...  


THE WOMAN FROM THE J.F.K. LOUNGE, not an accountant but an assassin, 
draws a bead on -- 


BULLETS shatter bottles, beakers, test tubes; glass fills the air.  
TEMPLAR stands up, his 9mm leveled at the woman.  
The woman's gun is leveled at Templar. - 



I counted nine.  







forehead.  





















Don't ask questions. What's your price? 



for her, fifty for the house.  








offense you understand.  



don't come back.  













pulsing light. Templar enters commands, adjusting the screen, widening it to GREATER NEW YORK.  Somewhere in Queens, fairly close to the Atlantic Ocean, we see a PULSING LIGHT. But it's fixed, inert.  
The pulsing light begins to move east, quickly.  






Indeed, Simon Templar, a plane.  





She stirs. Mumbles something.  
Slowly opens her eyes. Yuri approaches.  
Yuri lifts away the blanket. Jillian's wrists are tied to the wheelchair armrests, 
her ankles to the footrests.  
Yuri produces a SYRINGE. He grabs Jillian's forearm and pushes in the needle.  
Jillian's head bobs forward.  





moving past sign: 





to A GUY IN A BROOKS BROTHERS SUIT. Stares at him. After a few seconds 
of this...  












Cash. Right now.  














engine cowling of a WWI classic BIWING FIGHTER. We only see his legs.  









cowling. Bandanna around neck.  Cigar. A tattoo here, a scar there...  
COCO, a young mechanic, hands Remy a CELLULAR PHONE.  





Remy Samarkand.  




















PROP. ENTERED SCOTLAND FIVE 








are pulsing: 1) Remy's jet, moving north from Paris; and 2) The jet carrying Jillian, moving across Scotland heading due east.  
The plane is in flight. Templar's homing device and mini-computer sit on the cockpit console.  






two year? Three? Now tell me: 
what's so important about this plane? 



of my money.  












TECHNO-ROCK at a zillion decibals.  


"FRANKIE), late 20's, blonde spiky hair, pretty in a sort of dangerous way, is soldering a panel of transistors to the satellite.  
A wall-mounted T.V. plays a news program.  




been accused of inciting riots and 
violence in St. Petersburg...  
















you be in St. Petersburg? 








thousand cash for two days work.  






His office in particular.  





nice man, Simon. Four 
hundred thousand.  








The PILOT shouts back.  



Yuri wakes, sits upright. Yawns.  








Petersburg. Remy jerks the stick, banking into a right turn behind the Russian jet. Remy 
looks at his ALTITUDE GAUGE.  





Remy pushes the stick; the Lear jet begins descending.  







BACK TO SCENE - YURI stands up and stretches. He goes to the window and 
looks out.  [Wheelchair trivia: wheelchair armrests are removable, enabling a patient to 
transfer himself from the chair to a regular chair, or car seat, etc...] 


blanket) pulls out the PIN securing the armrest to the wheelchair. She lifts the armrest, separating the aluminum tubing, freeing her right wrist.  



Remy, his headset on, turns to Templar.  















The PILOT shouts back to Yuri: 






Suddenly JILLIAN'S EYES are open; her hands are free and she's throwing off 
the blanket and gripping the wheels.  
She pushes; the wheelchair bursts forward.  
YURI gets to his feet; the wheelchair slams against his shins. Jillian WHIPS 
the detached armrest across Yuri's head. Yuri falls backward, dazed.  
Jillian rolls to the emergency door, one hand yanking open the door, the other 
grabbing a PARACHUTE from the shelf. Wind howls through the cabin.  
Jillian gets the parachute on. Her ankles are still bound to the footrests. To 
hell with it, she'll lose the wheelchair in mid-air. She pushes forward as -- 


teeter on the edge of emergency door exit, half in, half out.  
Yuri clings to the chair wheels. His body jerks forward. He's sliding on his 
stomach. Jillian and the chair are pulling him out. Terror in Yuri's eyes. He 
grabs for the door frame. His fingers slip.  
Jillian, the wheelchair, and Yuri hanging from the wheelchair, plunge from the 
aircraft.  




REMY suddenly clutches his arm.  
















footrests. YURI is beneath her, clutching the wheels. He tries to pull himself 
up.  


SLINGSHOT UP, decelerating from 120 m.p.h. to 20 m.p.h. in two seconds.  
Yuri can't take the "G" force; his hands rip away from the chair. He 
plummets, SCREAMING, and 3000 feet later he will hit concrete in St.  
Petersburg.  


same manner), freeing her ankles. The chair releases, falling away.  



He yanks open one designated: PARACHUTES.  





They flap around the cockpit.  
Templar looks askance at Remy...  






Maybe a Russian would pay more? 


YANKS OPEN the EMERGENCY EXIT DOOR. Cold air blasts his face.  



and wait for my call! 







Peaceful. Normal. Pedestrians walk the streets.  
[note: St. Petersburg is called "Venice of the North" because it's built atop 
marshy islands connected by canals. There are over 400 bridges; on the 
canals, boat traffic is often as dense as automobile traffic.] 
A WOMAN, glancing up, notices something.  









And down she comes, landing hard in the middle of an intersection. TAXIS 
and AUTOMOBILES swerve aside, nearly killing her. Others SCREECH to a 
stop.  


silk. She looks around at -- 







stop. A YOUNG COP, just 20, hangs up his c.b. radio and gets out. He 
approaches Jillian.  




pipes, arguing, etc.  


Templar dangles 15 feet off the ground. He looks at the GEEZERS directly below. Hello there.  





scuttling the pieces. The Geezers fall backward on their behinds.  
Templar gets to his feet, gaining his bearings, looking for Jillian. He takes off running.  








Yes. Some.  













SUPPORTERS carrying placards and banners. They begin pelting the cruiser with rocks and bottles.  



Rocks and bottles smash on the back windshield.  


There could be revolution maybe.  
City very dangerous.  


street, blocking it.  The Young Russian Cop brakes; the cruiser comes to a stop in front of the other cruisers.  


young cop's cruiser.  



He suddenly stops short, seeing -- 

















In one shocking, effortless motion, he places a silenced handgun to the Young 
Cop's head and squeezes the trigger. Blood spatters the windshield.  
JILLIAN gasps in horror at the plainclothesman. It is...ILYA.  
The Older Cop opens the door, shoving the Young Cop's corpse to the 
passenger side. Ilya gets in back next to Jillian, pressing the HANDGUN into her ribs. The cruiser ROARS off into St. Petersburg traffic.  



He pulls out his burglar's tools; jams one in the ignition. He has it running in seconds. He throws it in gear and ROARS off.  







accelerating through the gears.  AT THE NEXT INTERSECTION - TEMPLAR throws the cycle into a skidding, hair-raising turn.  He's going 'round the block to cut off the sedan.  
















Templar, virtually dragging Jillian, plows through the crowd, passing a 
Russian Army Corporal who's just gotten out of his ARMY SUPPLY TRUCK.  
















They accelerate into traffic. Templar looks at Jillian. She's trembling, staring 
catatonically straight ahead.  



are and what the hell is going on.  



but you know that by now. You left the critical 
data off the disk.  
Where is it? memorized, right? 







The guy who hired me will do anything 
to get your research. Once he has it, you're a 
corpse. Give me the missing data and I'll get 
you out of here. You can trust me.  














on the console between them, and throws it in Templar's face.  













Then he sees her.  
Just a glimpse. 50 yards ahead. Moving through the crowded sidewalk toward the FONTANKA (the largest and most beautiful of the city's grand canals).  



other way. Nothing.  
He stops in the middle of the bridge, exhausted, out of breath. Below him, 
passing under the bridge, all types of WATER CONVEYANCES (skiffs, barges, 
dinghies, etc) are navigating the canal.  


TAXI,...is Jillian.  Templar races off the bridge.  



taxi is 50 yards past the bridge.  
JILLIAN sees him coming.  
TEMPLAR closes the gap. 30 yards. 20 yards. Now 10. Now he's running 
alongside the taxi, staring at Jillian.  
And she stares back at him, stony, expressionless.  
The canal is wider now, and the water taxi accelerates, pulling away from the 
slower skiffs.  
Templar slows to a jog. He stops, lungs heaving. The sun is setting to the 
west.  
The water taxi speeds off into the setting sun, leaving Templar with this 
image of Jillian: eyes unblinking, staring at him with pure, unadulterated 
hatred.  





EXPRESS VAN rolls up to a traffic light.  



Express uniform. She pulls out a charge of C-4 plastique with a timer. She 
opens the van door; tosses it into a sidewalk TRASH RECEPTACLE.  
She accelerates through the light, now green, and takes a left into TRETIAK' S 
HEADQUARTERS, parking behind a LIMOUSINE which has just entered.  
The limousine's doors open. Several dark-suited men get out. One of them is 
IVAN GRACHA (the Russian mafia figure shown on the C.N.N. broadcast).  



Tretiak's desk. Tretiak, Ilya, Zubov, and ten men are present.  



The woman is not-the only scientist 
working in this field. Is she? 















v.c.r. within. The surveillance camera in Tretiak's office begins taping the 
meeting.  





It's my wife's birthday.  






An historic moment.  










words between us. We are rivals. But rivalry 
is bad for business. Upon what conditions would 
you accept a partnership? Be reasonable.  



in St. Petersburg and Moscow. A third of 
prostitution and gambling.  





for two days. Particularly Moscow 
and points South.  





somewhere in Westchester, wearing her "atomic" jacket. The second is an 
Interpol photo taken of TEMPLAR in a cafe in Amsterdam.  



and kill this man.  












Frankie enters with a big DELIVERY BOX.  





signature. Frankie looks at the surveillance monitors and raises an eyebrow.  


toast. In the screen's lower corner are the letters "REC." The meeting is being 
taped.  



monstrously concussive explosion.  



unholster their weapons. Tretiak's men go for theirs. A tense stand-off.  











the intercom, leaving FRANKIE unattended by the surveillance monitors.  
Her hand moves to THE CO-AXIAL CABLE behind the video monitors, yanking 
it. She plugs a TRANSMITTOR into the monitor, then replugs the co-axial 
cable into the transmitter. The guard turns to Frankie.  








the screen.  




pulses: 1) a fixed pulse (Templar) and 2) a moving pulse (Jillian) on the other 
side of town.  
Templar turns his collar up; walks off into the night.  



swigs a vodka bottle, looking dangerously at Templar. A few PROSTITUTES 
pass.  
Templar pulls out the homing device.  


Templar, emanating from inside a huge building, the NEVSKY RAIL STATION.  


street to the train station.  



the north and south ends.  


of the station concourse.  





Moscow. Against the wall, a gang of ten PROSTITUTES are smoking, drinking 
vodka, laughing.  
Templar freezes.  
JILLIAN is with the prostitutes. Her back's to Templar, but it's her. Same 
"atomic" jacket, the shoes Templar gave her, same height, same weight. ...  


TWO MEN IN BLACK TRENCHCOATS, obviously Tretiak's men, are converging 
upon Jillian from the other direction. They haven't yet seen Templar...  


kill.  
TEMPLAR falls in behind them, WHIPPING the barrel of his gun over one, then 
the other. They fall, unconscious. The PROSTITUTES, alarmed, whirl around 
and...  


Templar, thunderstruck, looks at THE PROSTITUTE'S feet. She's wearing 
JILLIAN'S SHOES and JACKET. On her wrist is JILLIAN'S WRISTWATCH.  
Templar turns. The TRAIN TO MOSCOW is pulling out of the station. ...  


Jillian sold her clothes and watch and bought a ticket to Moscow.  



come the burglar's tools. Templar's through the door lock in two seconds. He 
gets in and shoves a tool in the ignition lock.  





phone chirps. He unpockets it, clicks it on.  






the street.  
Frankie sits in front of six VIDEO MONITORS like those in Tretiak's 
headquarters; they are receiving the video transmissions from Tretiak's 
surveillance cameras. We see exteriors, Zubov's lab, corridors, etc.  
Frankie is looking at A MONITOR OF TRETIAK'S OFFICE; Tretiak is pacing, 
talking on the phone.  



they don't know where she is.  








every train leaving the city.  





across three lanes of traffic, swerving off the highway down an exit ramp.  





two-lane road running next to the Moscow line train tracks.  





We see the blinking caboose lights of the TRAIN TO MOSCOW. It's stopped at 
an intersection in front of TWO BLACK SEDANS parked across the tracks.  



train's stopped. Her hair is brushed over the gash on her forehead. She wears 
the prostitute's ratty jacket and shoes.  



forth, checking every passenger's face.  









next.  
He sees JILLIAN. This time it is her.  






next car, which TRETIAK'S MEN are entering. She rises to flee, running into -- 


mouth and shoves her forward to the exit door which opens to the parallel 
tracks.  
Templar wrenches open the door and sticks his head outside, looking down 
the tracks. We hear a TRAIN WHISTLE and RUMBLING WHEELS.  
Templar comes back inside. TRETIAK'S MEN are half-way through the next 
car and approaching fast.  








whistle BLARES. Jillian looks up; her face contorts with shock at -- 
A TRAIN bearing down on them at 60 m.p.h. 100 feet.  
Now 70. 50. Jesus, it's right on top of them...  


The TRAIN SCREAMS past them.  



train flashes by, blocking any view of Templar and Jillian on the other side of 
the tracks.  
They continue down the aisle, into the next car.  



He gets up and yanks her to her feet. Pulls her back toward the train to 
Moscow.  



phone. Outside, we see TRETIAK'S MEN walking toward their vehicles.  
Templar and Jillian enter the private berth across from the businessman. It 
has reclining chairs and a curtain for privacy. The train BEGINS MOVING 
again.  
Templar and Jillian sit, regarding each other.  









watch. You were going for the U.S.  
embassy, weren't you? 



I am going.  
Before we discuss the present, 
let's discuss the past.  





full name, address, profession, 
and don't - don't - say Michael Quinn 
of 112 Mason Street, shoemaker.  



I don't have an address because I 
live in hotels. I'm a professional thief.  



I'd like to respond to that.  


Jillian pulls the curtain shut.  
Then she SLAPS Templar, hard, across the face.  









He catches her arm.  
They freeze this way, faces inches apart.  
She's trembling, her face a mask of hatred.  











you as I can.  


















at eight a.m., fueled and ready to go.  


barrel pointing at Jillian through his jacket. With his free hand he grabs her 
arm and puts it under his arm, clamping it to his body.  



make a scene. I'd get some rest.  
Templar leans back, shutting his eyes.  





ACROSS THE AISLE - THE GERMAN BUSINESSMAN is folding up his cellular 
phone and stuffing it in his satchel briefcase on the floor. He leans back and 
closes his eyes. The satchel briefcase sticks into the aisle.  
Close enough for Jillian to touch...  








approach a building.  
Zubov rings the doorbell. Seconds pass. The door opens. An Indian gentleman 
peers out.  
He's about 50, in a madras shirt and nehru jacket. This is DR. VIJAY SINGH, 
whose taped lecture we heard in Jillian's station wagon.  









like to discuss something with...  






it.  



Dr. Singh's demeanor changes. Pushes open the door.  











thirty minutes...  


Across the aisle -- 


who's looking out the window.  



I think you can trust me to...  





Ternplar follows.  



How much were you paid? 






C'mon. Tell me.  



but it didn't work out. Did it.  











No sense of morality? 






generally understood word.  





enter.  








He steps up on the toilet, examining the WINDOW above.  



as they would do unto you.  



before they do unto you.  


rising further by TWO SAFETY SCREWS drilled through the frame.  






crucified by his.  


laughs mirthlessly.  



Who were your parents, Lucretia 
Borgia and the Marquis de Sader 



as nice as that. I wouldn't know.  
I never met them. Are you through? 
It's all yours.  




She turns on the sink, then kneels and pulls up her pantleg, revealing THE 
GERMAN BUSINESSMAN'S CELLULAR PHONE stuffed in her sock. She pulls it 
out.  
She turns the sink on full blast, creating as much noise as she can, and 
punches numbers.  













know that? 



They move down the aisle, passing the SERVING PORTER, Jillian's hand 
dangles over the fruit and cheese cart.  
She plucks up a SERVING KNIFE with two fingers and slides it up her sleeve.  



no one.  












she turns back toward her berth, she doesn't like what she sees -- 


stack of business correspondence sitting on the armrest of his chair with a 
LETTER OPENER.  

his phone is missing...  


Finally Jillian and Templar come to their berth. The German Businessman is 
reading a letter. The letter opener is sitting on the stack of unopened letters.  
Jillian "accidentally" knocks the stack of letters and letter opener off the 
armrest. They fall to the floor next to the German Businessman's satchel 
briefcase.  
Jillian quickly drops to a kneeling position and begins gathering up all the 
letters.  







briefcase.  
Templar and Jillian sit down.  













pass the ladies' room: 



I don't feel well.  








LETTER OPENER. She centers the opener in one of the screw heads, leans into 
it, and twists. She begins unscrewing it.  



The passengers are filing past him.  
He knocks on the door.  









The German Businessman passes by him...  








instantly gets his attention.  
The fully opened window. And no Jillian... Templar bolts out.  





interior. As impressive as Grand Central in New York or Victoria in London.  
She moves through the crowd. Eyes scanning everything and nothing. She 
bumps into A COMMUTER, who scowls.  
Jillian takes cover by one of the immense marble pillars. She pulls her collar 
up. Waits it out.  


played linebacker for Ohio State.  
He approaches. She eyes him. Everyone is a potential enemy. But this guy is 
obviously American.  











Central Intelligence Agency.  
Was your trip all right? 



I'm finally safe...  





you some questions. That was an interesting 
story you told the embassy.  






Embassy receives fifty calls a day.  
My husband's been murdered, 
my daughter's been sold into white slavery, 
you get the idea. So before we waste a lot of people's 
time, Ms. St. Thomas, you say you have p.h.d.s 
in chemistry and nuclear physics.  
What's the atomic symbol for, say. ..gold? 










Suddenly his cellular phone chirps. He unpockets it and clicks it on.  






from Tretiak's office. Tretiak and Ilya are talking. .  





half hour ago.  








than a Polish submarine. Who do you 
think intercepted the call? 


office. Frankie's eyes widen.  


It is the crusading reformer, MICHAEL ROMANOV.  
Frankie stabs a button on a tape recorder next to her monitors. It begins 
taping the transmission from Tretiak's office.  






CLICK.  


She ups the volume. We hear this: 



Fatherland. How will that sound 
to the average Russian? 









passengers, taking two stairs at a time.  



moves off, eyes darting in all directions for Jillian, while meanwhile  





cadmium's valence is 2, its atomic number 
is 48 and its atomic weight is 112.411 or 
would you like that carried out five more decimal 
places? Good enough? 




Ms. St. Thomas.  
He ushers her off.  







buses, automobiles.  
Jillian and Whitehead exit the station.  
AHEAD - TWO MERCEDES SEDANS are waiting. Several darksuited MEN stand 
next to an open back door.  




work could just be taken from me...  



We'll have you back in New York in no time.  
They continue toward the parked Mercedes.  


It's TEMPLAR, driving a Russian sedan. He rolls to a stop across the circular 
drive, staring a hole right through Jillian, grimly shaking his head at her, 
trying to warn her...  












police officers standing to the side. Something's wrong. Something doesn't 
feel right.  



You had a question? 





when my research was stolen I felt like 
the Buffalo Bills after they lost four World Series.  



fan too hah hah...  




They continue toward the waiting sedans.  


And she bolts from him, taking Whitehead by surprise.  
JILLIAN sprints across the circular drive for Templar's car, Whitehead after 
her. The men by the waiting Mercedes converge on Jillian from the side.  
TEMPLAR throws open the passenger side door for Jillian.  
The men coming from the Mercedes open fire on Templar, blowing in the 
sedan's side window. Templar ducks.  
JILLIAN'S almost there...  
She reaches the open sedan and dives inside.  
She tries to shut the door; WHITEHEAD gets hold of it.  
JILLIAN SCREAMS at Templar.  





alongside, trying to get the door open.  
The car accelerates. Whitehead sprints but can't keep up. His feet leave the 
ground; he clings to the doorframe through the blown-out window.  
Whitehead pulls his gun from his shoulder holster and aims across Jillian's 
body at Templar. His finger 
squeezes the trigger as Jillian shoves his hand up.  
BULLETS blow holes in the roof of the car.  


Whitehead's head snaps back. She hits him again.  
Whitehead falls away from the car.  
He rolls twenty feet and stops, dazed but alive.  



SCREECH to a stop. The sedan flies on...  











in the lead Mercedes; the two cars race off after Templar and Jillian.  



mirror. There's no sign of the two Mercedes. They've escaped.  






them or you? 




tapping across the intersection.  
Jillian cringes, expecting the worst. Templar throws the steering wheel and -- 



through the intersection.  








across the sidewalk.  





around. The Mercedes rounds a corner.  
Across the intersection is the OVERTURNED SEDAN on the sidewalk, 
surrounded by gawking PEDESTRIANS.  



the sedan, drawing guns. The pedestrians back off, getting the hell out of the 
way.  


inside...Templar and Jillian are gone.  
Whitehead barks at his men.  



Go house to house.  


them, a RUSSIAN ORTHODOX CHURCH several blocks away, under scaffolding 
and mesh wire, in the process of renovation. CAMERA pushes in on the 
church's HUGE ONION SHAPED TURRET. . . . .  



and chair. A trap door leading to the vestibule below BANGS OPEN.  


They're cut and bruised, exhausted.  
Jillian slumps against the wall, shivering.  
Templar puts his equipment on the desk and goes to each of the windows.  
From this elevation he can see the entire city.  


Muscovites are listening to a pro Michael Romanov speech.  


INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, where Remy waits.  


away - we see the American flag flying from the roof stanchion.  
In the intersections around the embassy, Tretiak's men stand by their 
vehicles, watching. Every point of access to the embassy is sealed.  
We see WHITEHEAD. A Mercedes pulls up to him. ILYA gets out.  





is staring at Templar's computer. The modem is engaging. JILLIAN sits up, 
staring at the screen.  
Jillian reads an ELECTRONIC MESSAGE which appears: 
BEAR CONTACTING LION.  





Templar looks out a third window.  


fifteen block radius sweep, closing in on the church.  



noose around us. We don't have much time.  










Interesting situation I'd say.  





























were going to go to scientific research, 
curing cancer, .. .christ how can you understand this...  






He picks up his homing device and clicks it on.  
He types in this command: MOSCOW.  
The device beeps; THE MOSCOW STREET GRID appears.  
He types a new command: SUBTERRANEAN DATA.  
Moscow's SUBTERRANEAN GRID appears superimposed over the street grid; 
we see the guts of the city; the Moscow subway, water and gas mains, etc. In a corner of the screen is a TABLE OF SCHEDULES.  
Templar analyzes the information on the screen.  


He pulls her up. She stands limply, still weeping, no longer resisting. He's 
bigger and stronger, there's no use. Templar gathers Jillian's wrists together 
and ties them with the belt.  
He pulls her to the trapdoor and CUT TO: 



COVER. He kneels and hoists the cover off. He points into the hole.  
Jillian, her wrists bound, steps down uneasily, her feet finding the top rung of 
a STEEL LADDER. She descends into the manhole. Templar follows.  



walkway over the Moscow sewer.  
Templar pulls Jillian twenty feet down the walkway.  
At this point in the wall there is a HATCH with a compression HATCHWHEEL, 
the turning of which opens the hatch, like on a submarine.  
Within the hatch we hear RUSHING WATER.  



In one hour you're going in there.  


Jillian, shivering with terror, stares at the blade...  



day for five minutes to clean the filters.  
Once at noon, once at midnight. Noon is in one hour.  












There's an exit hatch into the embassy 
courtyard. That's where we're going.  
















then we'll talk about it.  
















PLACARDS BEARING ROMANOV'S FACE, chanting: 
KARPOV MUST GO! Ahead, awaiting them, are -- 


megaphone.  





supporters push into the line of police. The police push back with shields and truncheons.  A melee breaks out. The Romanov supporters surge past the police. It is a wild, uncontrolled, chaotic scene.  



Policemen. Fights rage allover the street. A full-fledged riot is breaking out.  OVERTURNED CARS are burning. LOOTERS run through the streets with stolen goods. We hear the sporadic CRACKLE of small arms fire.  


A U. S. MARINE and ARMY GREEN BERET detachment, grimfaced and heavily 
armed, stand silent vigil inside the embassy's wrought-iron gates.  
COLONEL WILLIAM CROSBY, embassy c.o., exits the embassy and 
approaches the front gates. A FULL BEER BOTTLE smashes at his feet, 
showering him.  





Ilya and his men stand next to their vehicles, silently watching the embassy.  















and up into the embassy compound. You can do this.  
She grabs Templar's hand. He pulls her up and inside -- 



sticks it between his teeth. On hands and kneess Templar and Jillian move off 
through the water main.  



EXIT HATCH WITH HATCHWHEEL is above them.  






front of the embassy.  

















Jillian, panicked, looks down the water main.  

























hatchwheel as -- 


backward; she desperately clings to Templar's shoulders as he spins the 
hatchwheel.  The water rises mercilessly. There's a foot of air, then six inches, then just three, then none at all, and they're under water...  TEMPLAR desperately turns the hatchwheel, spinning it one last time and WHOOOSH, the hatch door blows open  



of the service manhole, CRACKING a fissure in it. PRESSURIZED GAS blows 
out of the pipe. TEMPLAR pulls himself up. He reaches down and pulls Jillian up. Templar kicks the exit hatchdoor closed and spins the hatchwheel shut.  
JILLIAN looks at the GAS spewing from the cracked pipe.  
She sniffs the air. Templar looks at the pipe. A warning is printed in five 
languages: GAS - DANGEROUS.  






we'll asphyxiate.  


Templar pushes up the manhole cover, popping his head out, looking around.  HIS EYES widen with alarm --- 


manhole cover as the VAN RUMBLES over it.  
Templar listens. Above, the van has stopped.  
Templar pushes up the manhole cover. The VAN has stopped directly over the 
manhole.  



The van's rear door opens; TEN MEN jump down to the pavement. We see 
their BLACK BOOTS; they are MOSCOW POLICE, arriving to arrest the looters.  
Templar and Jillian crawl toward the van's rear.  
Templar looks toward THE U.S. EMBASSY. It's 100 yards away, but looks like 
100 miles.  



But one of us can.  


break for the embassy and 
don't stop running until you're 
at the gates. It's a hundred yards, 
so move it.  











They'll kill you.  





Templar. It can't do without you.  




races from the van, heading in a direction away from the embassy.  
ACROSS THE STREET - ILYA double takes, seeing Templar sprinting from the 
van.  





as they run, leaving -- 




men.  


Colonel Crosby watches the situation unfold.  





laying down a withering fusillade of fire. Templar returns fire from behind the 
car.  







She sprints for the embassy gates.  
BEHIND THE OVERTURNED CAR - TEMPLAR 

his breath.  





going to get Jillian before she can reach the embassy.  JILLIAN, sprinting, screams to the embassy marines.  










COLONEL CROSBY watches Jillian helplessly. There's nothing he can do. Not until she reaches the embassy.  On Jillian comes, legs pumping, feet pounding the pavement. ILYA is right behind her.  She can feel his breath he's so close. Twenty yards. Fifteen yards. Ten...  


















surrounded by Tretiak's men behind the overturned automobile.  Ilya, fuming, walks across the street to Templar.  AT THE OVERTURNED CAR - ILYA walks up to Templar. With the calm efficiency of a hangman, Ilya puts his hand on Templar's shoulder and forces him down, down to his knees. He sticks his gun to Templar's head.  



















And Ilya laughs. Chuckling at first, then open-mouthed.  
All of TRETIAK'S MEN laugh in Templar's face.  
Ilya takes out a cigarette. Hands it to Templar.  
Lights it for him.  







Because Templar is looking at A GRATE above the municipal lines below. And 
TRETIAK'S MEN are sniffing the air, wondering why it smells like rotten 
eggs...  
Templar flicks the cigarette into the grate and dives away as -- 


GAS MAIN ignites .  
Ilya, Whitehead, and the other men are blown off their feet. Some are killed.  
Asphalt and dirt rain down, followed by -- 


Ilya and Whitehead get to their feet, looking around, water falling like a 
monsoon.  
Templar is gone.  
And the police van is SPEEDING away.  




phone. Punches numbers.  



cellular phone beeps.  



You want me to do what? 







pull two sedans into the intersection, blocking it.  



bumpers meet, BLASTING through them -- 





us...  





Red Square. It taxis to a stop next to Lenin's tomb.  
The police van SCREECHS up next to the Lear. Templar races from the van to 
the jet, dodging BULLETS fired from -- 


The Lear jet accelerates straight for the oncoming sedans, lifting off, almost 
scraping the landing gear against their windshields. It wings into the air, 
clearing the top of the Ivan Memorial by a foot.  
And heads west. To freedom.  





St. Petersburg - two days later 



out, then Dr. Singh, dressed in a conservative Indian suit, carrying a 
briefcase. Tretiak emerges from the mansion, greeting Doctor Singh.  



Dr. Singh dons reading glasses. Zubov places Jillian's research before him.  
Singh flips a page, then another.  
He is awed. It's like Salieri looking at Mozart's sheet music. He's searched all 
his life for something and... another person has found it.  













bearing down on the material, flipping through the pages which DISSOLVE INTO: 


















studies it a moment. Shakes her head.  













Templar is standing there.  
She walks up to him. A moment.  



of criminals.  







































I've ever been good at.  


























and books. He is surrounded by three chalk boards with chemical isotope 
diagrams.  He is adding chemicals to a bath of hydrogen in a COMPRESSION CHAMBER.  



Sodium bicarbon nitrate.  
A cobalt magnesium isotope.  
Liquify the cobalt at 665 degrees 
fahrenheit, add the magnesium. ...  


Dr. Singh takes a deep breath. He introduces the electrode needle into the 
compression chamber through a rubber valve.  
And like a miracle, the LIGHTBULB ILLUMINATES. Dr. Singh looks up as if he's 
just seen Shiva.  








A ROW OF FLASHBULBS EXPLODE POP POP POP...  



outside the Smithsonian. She is formally dressed. TWO F.B.I. AGENTS walk 
with her.  
It is raining. The place is a sea of umbrellas.  
Several REPORTERS trail after her.  



Omni Magazine. Is it true? Have you done it? 



ten minutes, Mr. Rothstein.  



Dr. Vijay Singh has said that 
your theories are insupportable...  




Doctor Singh's opinions on this 
or anything else.  


life. She looks across the Mall.  
TEMPLAR stands there. Alone, smiling at her.  
Jillian winks at him, mouthing the words: "open it." 
TEMPLAR understands. He pulls a GIFTWRAPPED BOX from his pocket and 
opens it. Inside is a TIE-PIN; a stick figure man with a halo over his head.  
Templar sticks it through his tie. Picks up the accompanying card.  


Anyone can be a saint, Simon Templar.  
Templar looks back at Jillian. He sees something.  
Behind Jillian, moving toward her through the crowd, is a BLONDE MAN 
UNDER AN UMBRELLA. It looks like... Ilya.  
Templar squints for clearer vision. He begins walking toward the Smithsonian.  
He quickens to a jog, now he's running...  










his arm; whips him around.  





Meanwhile JILLIAN, backing up the stairs from the reporters, draws closer to - - 


button on the handle, revealing a GLISTENING NEEDLE POINT. CAMERA 
moves over his shoulder, revealing...ILYA. With dyed black hair.  
JILLIAN keeps backing up the stairs...  


JILLIAN feels something. Like a bee sting. Her hand moves to her hip...  









Jillian looks at him. Templar's panting, out of breath.  













ACROSS THE MALL.. .ILYA is gone, melting into the sea of umbrellas.  



front of the room.  



physicists claimed to have perfected...  


Their results couldn't be duplicated. ...  


hand shakes.  
TEMPLAR, seated in the back, watches her.  



announce that 
I . . . .  




And the world is swirling...  
Jillian falls, her ice water SMASHING on the floor.  
TEMPLAR runs to her, shoving people aside.  





AMBULANCE, GET AN AMBULANCE! 












God please no...  
But God won't help you, Simon Templar...  
...God will take her anyway.  











suffered a cerebral aneurism...  









It is the ruling of this court that 
death was due to natural...  





In international news, the 
situation in St. Petersburg worsened...  





They're camped out now.  
A C.N.N. NEWS TEAM transmits from the square.  



of the Tiananmen Square 
crisis, Bernard.  
The death toll stands at 
forty-eight civilians and 
at least twenty-one armed 
forces personnel.  
Rumors escalated today that...  



heavily guarded gates of the Admiralty, 
Russia's Naval headquarters, akin to Annapolis.  





Romanov his support, pending 
the outcome of today's meeting 
between Romanov and President Karpov.  


wild, clapping and cheering. The limo continues into the Admiralty compound.  





this is the place from which Russian military leaders would conduct nuclear 
war.  
It's an acre-sized field of concrete, recessed 30 feet into the earth. It looks 
like a very large, very deep swimming pool emptied of water.  
In the middle is a concave-shaped entrance hatch (visualize an enormous 
bowl turned upside down). The two halves of the concave hatch open down 
the middle, each side retracting into the facility.  
On the concrete floor next to the hatch is a SMALL DETECTION UNIT. We'll 
find about the unit shortly...  


SERVICEMEN escort Romanov to the entrance hatch. They descend down 
stairs to -- 



computer stations run the length of the room. It looks like a N.A.S.A. control 
room.  
The Secret Servicemen lead Romanov across the room to -- 



a small satellite link.  
VICTOR KARPOV, the popularly elected President of Russia, rises. Karpov is 
55, intelligent, with a calm, professional demeanor.  



You must worry for your safety.  











on taping meetings.  


who flips the switch on a VIDEO CAMERA mounted in the wall.  



Your remarks are irresponsible; 
they've caused civil unrest. Unless 
you appeal to your supporters 
to stop rioting, I will institute martial law.  





elections. We'll let the 
people decide.  






Romanov rises and exits.  




the glass down. WIDEN TO -- 



drawn and pale. Haunted. Hasn't slept or shaved for days. His fingernails are 
dirty.  


to the bar. He sets a FOLDER on the bartop and slides it to Templar.  
The two men exit.  
Templar opens the folder. Inside is a plane ticket. A plane ticket to St. Petersburg...  








was unfortunate.  
You lost. I lost. To think 
what we could have done 
with her formula.  
But life goes on, no? 


eyes utterly alert.  



presidency Russia will be ours.  
The possibilities are, you would 
agree, endless.  


I need that talent to break into an 
impregnable facility. Be part of 
this, Templar.  




you owe me.  



You were hired to steal 
something and you failed.  



and I use my own men.  



of my men goes with you.  







the woman, didn't you? 












in the street below.  
Templar sits at a table with Harry Winston, Remy Samarkand, and Frankie.  
ARCHITECTURAL PLANS and PHOTOGRAPHS of the Admiralty's Nuclear 
Situation Facility are spread amongst room service trays.  
ILYA, and the massive ZERO sit on the couch, listening.  
Ilya eyes Templar. Templar periodically meets Ilya's eyes. These exchanged 
glances are rife with hostility.  
They've been at this a while and everyone's frustrated.  



is in the nuclear operations 
room. The entry hatch 
can't be activated from 
above - only below.  



with eight feet of concrete.  
Explosives and drills are out.  






Simon, please: this is not a bank.  
This is the former Soviet Union's 
missile command.  
Forced entry is impossible.  


Templar examines A PHOTOGRAPH of the facility.  
He fixates on it. He sees something.  





entrance hatch.  
Frankie looks at the photograph, then picks up a set of blueprints. Starts 
flipping through...  





In the event of nuclear 
fall-out it automatically closes 
the hatch.  
















ACROSS THE LAB, ZUBOV and DR. SINGH are huddled over a hydrogen tank, 
just like the one we saw in Jillian's lab. The tank is surrounded by hundreds of 
testtubes and beakers containing chemicals.  



its gross national product on oil.  



wealthiest nation on earth.  



the most powerful people.  





The ROMANOV SUPPORTERS outside the admiralty now number several 
thousand. They carry pro-Romanov banners and shout: DOWN WITH 
KARPOV! In the b.g., we see more rioting. Gunfire crackling. An overturned 
truck.  


Romanov supporters up to the Admiralty gates.  
TWO RUSSIAN NAVY M.P.'s open the gates. The ambulance pulls inside. The 
driver's window rolls down. It's Harry Winston dressed as a RUSSIAN ARMY 
PARAMEDIC.  





The ambulance pulls into the Admiralty compound, going past to the rear, to 
the NAVAL HOSPITAL EMERGENCY WARD.  



The back door opens. Remy, dressed as a PARAMEDIC, gets out. Remy and 
Harry haul out two heavily bandaged RUSSIAN SOLDIERS on stretchers.  
The stretchers expand into rolling gurneys. Harry and Remy roll the wounded 
soldiers inside.  



DOCTORS and NURSES are scrambling around, attending to WOUNDED 
SOLDIERS. The scene is frenetic.  
The gurneys roll past the operating rooms, through double doors, into a 
room. No one notices.  



gurneys. They are TEMPLAR and ILYA. Ilya wears the uniform of a NAVAL 
M.P. Templar wears a bulky, lead-lined anti-radiation suit.  
Templar shoulders his backpack.  
Harry Winston stands on a counter, pushing up the CEILING TILE. Templar 
and Ilya climb atop the counter.  
Harry forms a stirrup with his hands and hoists Templar, then Ilya, through 
the hole in the ceiling.  



OPENING.  

TWO NAVAL GUARDS are walking their shift. They walk around the corner. . . 






three inches to stand on.  
Ilya crawls out, his feet finding the same windowsill.  
The two men are side-by-side.  
They begin inching across the sill to a STEEL-RUNGED ladder leading to the 
concrete floor below.  
Ilya's FOOT suddenly slips. His arms flail. He tries to keep his balance, but 
fails.  
Templar catches Ilya's wrist.  
A terrifying tableau: Ilya, hanging over the concrete floor below, held up only 
by Templar. If Templar let's go, Ilya's dead. They stare at each other...  


Templar. They continue to the ladder and descend.  






Templar kneels next to the RADIATION DETECTOR, unshouldering his 
backpack.  
Templar's anti-radiation suit has a goggled hood, which he dons. He then 
carefully lifts from his backpack a PLEXIGLASS RECTANGULAR BOX the size 
and shape of a shoe box, and a high-powered cordless BOLTDRIVER.  
The plexiglass box has two' compartments, one empty, the other filled with 
SMOKY GAS.  

unpockets FOUR CONCRETE BOLTS CREWS and bolts the box tightly to the 
concrete floor with the cordless boltdriver. (The plexiglass box has a steel 
mount with holes for this purpose.) 



the nuclear situation facility...  



compartments within the box OPENS.  
Inside, THE SMOKY GAS releases. It wafts into the radiation detector's 
sensors.. ..Templar watches anxiously, talking to it...  



you don't know that...  







the radiation's gone...  


GAS into the air. A moment passes.  
The EMERGENCY LIGHT turns off and, open sesame, THE CONCRETE 
HATCHDOORS separate, revealing STAIRS.  
Templar rips off his hood. He and Ilya descend.  



the nuclear situation facility...  



open/close switch. Templar throws the "close" switch. Above, the hatch doors 
start to close..  








Karpov's office.  



revealing ROWS OF VIDEOTAPE CASSETTES.  
Ilya rifles through the tapes.  
Templar kneels behind the T.V. and V.C.R. He switches the T.V.'s satellite link 
from "RECEIVE" to "TRANSMIT," and adjusts the satellite frequency.  
Ilya hands Templar a VIDEO CASSETTE TAPE. Templar throws it in the V.C.R.  
and hits a button. The V.C.R. transmits the tape over the satellite link to the - - 



outer space, where it bounces off a satellite and returns to -- 



sophisticated editing equipment.  
Tretiak, Romanov, and several of Tretiak's men stand to the side.  
Templar's transmission plays on a T.V. It's a tape of the Karpov/Romanov 
meeting: 






We'll let the people decide.  






Grachameeting, taped earlier: 



you accept a partnership? 
Be reasonable.  



in St. Petersburg and Moscow.  
A third of prostitution and gambling.  


used by filmmakers. Frankie hits some buttons on the morphing machine.  
On the first V.C.R. MONITOR - ROMANOV'S IMAGE is lifted from the 
videotape. It simply disappears.  











Karpov/Romanov meeting. Romanov has been morphed out and Ivan Gracha 
bas been morphed in.  
ON THE SCREEN, it now looks like this: 






in St. Petersburg and Moscow.  
A third of prostitution and gambling.  




















Yes, an emergency.  





have time to get out of there...  


TWO MOSCOW POLICEMEN enter. They stride over to Frankie, yank her up 
and handcuff her, dragging her off.  







detachment of RUSSIAN ARMY SPECIAL FORCES.  






Special Forces Men walk silently past the startled Naval Guard, who rushes 
inside and hits a KLAXON HORN.  



at...the tanks.  






the tank's loudspeaker: 



I repeat, this is matter of national...  


The Special Forces Men walk up to the open hatch.  



morphed tape...  





over the old tape. It's almost finished...  



Karpov's office...  



credenza. He kneels by the drawer.  
Something fast and unexpected happens, like slight-of hand. Templar pulls A 
SECOND TAPE from inside his suit and puts it back in the drawer, sliding the 
morphed tape under the credenza. He stands, turns, and freezes...  


- the tape from Templar's waistband.  The door bursts open. The Special Forces men pile inside. The Special Forces 
MAJOR regards the situation.  















beam of light on Karpov, who sits up, staring with a confused expression at -- 








pouring into the square. It is an anxious, surreal scene.  
RUSSIAN TANKS and ARMOURED VEHICLES surround the square.  
THE CROWD explodes with thunderous cheers as -- 


GENERAL NICOLAI RADISCHEV, tall, stern, career Army man, follows with a 
contingent of junior officers.  


arrest, escorted by SPECIAL FORCES MEN.  
Romanov climbs atop a TANK TURRET.  
He looks out over the crowd.  
THE CROWD comes to a hush. Like Lenin's arrival at Finland Station. A 
history-in-the-making atmosphere.  



Major Antonin Scarpinin.  





Russian Special Forces, acting on 
confidential information, raided 
President Karpov's office...  


limousines.  
As Tretiak moves through the crowd, IVAN GRACHA and twenty of his men 
approach.  



it is a great night for Russia.  



I'll make my money either way.  



interest in politics, Ivan Gracha.  
Tretiak and Gracha turn to Major Scarpinin, listening...  


next to Scarpinin. Templar and Frankie exchange a steely glance.  
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SQUARE - REMY and HARRY come through the 
crowd. Seeing Templar and Frankie atop the tank, they stop in their tracks 
and watch...  



aided by this woman, a German 
operative, were arrested stealing a 
surveillance videotape from 
President Karpov's office.  
Scarpinin shows THE SEIZED TAPE to the crowd, then hands it to Romanov, 
who climbs atop the tank.  
TEMPLAR AND FRANKIE are pulled down from the turret and led away to TWO 
ARMY TRUCKS in the background.  



prove that those who call 
themselves our leaders...  


know to be thieves, traitors, 
rapists of our once-great country.  
Do you want to see this proof? 






communications TECHNICIAN standing by a portable V.C.R. linked to the 
HUGE SCREEN (seen in Romanov's earlier speech) above Romanov.  
ON THE TANK TURRET - ROMANOV points at the HUGE SCREEN.  
The crowd waits breathlessly. .:.  


Shockingly, we see...Tretiak's.  
Simon Templar stashed the tape Frankie recorded of the Tretiak/Romanov 
meeting in Karpov's office. We see: 



of the Fatherland. How will 
that sound to the average Russian? 





ROMANOV'S eyes widen.  
TRETIAK and MEN stare in disbelief at the screen.  
IVAN GRACHA and his men slowly back away from Tretiak.  



To partnership in government.  



to partnership in crime.  


. ...500,000 RUSSIANS stare back at him in silence.  











crusading reformer.  
ACROSS THE SQUARE - TRETIAK AND HIS MEN, huddled in a protective 
circle, stare into the angry faces of half a million Russian citizens.  
Total silence. A pin could drop.  
Tretiak and his men brandish their weapons. The intimidated crowd backs off.  
They move quickly toward their vehicles, the CROWD parting for them.  


They are heavily armed and ready for business.  
Tretiak aims and fires. A MARINE goes down.  
CIVILIANS SCREAM and dive away. pandemonium breaks out.  
TRETIAK'S MEN open fire. The MARINES return fire. A harrowing amount of 
ammunition is expended in seconds.  
Ten of Tretiak's men and many marines take hits. ZERO dies instantly. A 
brutal, close-quarters firefight. The outnumbered marines take the worst of it.  
Tretiak, Ilya, and Tretiak's surviving men run past the fallen marines to their 
vehicles.  
They pile into the first two cars and SQUEAL away, heading down the Nevsky 
Prospect.  


Panic and pandemonium. Soldiers running here and there amidst panicked 
civilians. A SPECIAL FORCES SERGEANT stands guard outside one of the 
trucks. A NAVAL PARAMEDIC, supporting a WOUNDED PARAMEDIC, staggers 
up.  
Harry Winston and Remy, of course.  





gun across the Sergeant's head, who collapses onto Harry. Harry drags him 
off and  


hops down  





TEMPLAR gets in the truck, sliding behind the wheel. He starts the ignition 
and throws it in drive. The truck rumbles forward, hopping the curb.  
THE ARMY TRUCK ROARS out of the square, pursuing Tretiak's vehicles down 
the Nevsky Prospect as, behind him -- 


by Russian Marines, Special Forces, and the enraged crowd. They too head 
down the Nevsky Prospect for the mafia headquarters...  





and men exit the vehicles and race inside -- 



Tretiak's on his cellular phone.  



be there in five minutes.  


records in my office.  


Tretiak's men go for the upstairs staircase.  



seen everything that just transpired, are frantically destroying their data and 
records.  
Zubov is burning the cold fusion hardcopies in a waste basket. Dr. Singh is 
deleting the computer files.  
Tretiak and Ilya come down the stairs. Zubov pops a 3 1/4 disk from the 
computer.  



formula to one disk and 
destroyed everything else.  





guns.  





much for honor among thieves.  
Then Tretiak wheels on Ilya, his gun coming up. Yes, so much for honor 
among thieves...  
Tretiak freezes, startled.  
Because Ilya has his gun leveled on Tretiak.  
Tretiak tries to speak. Words won't form. Ilya FIRES. Tretiak pitches over 
backward.  
Ilya walks past Tretiak's corpse, yanks the computer disk from Zubov's 
lifeless hand and turns -- 


Ilya's eyes dart around the room.  





















could get away with murder.  
Used curare didn't you? 
Induces blood-clotting.  







incoming ordnance...  



I want.. . revenge.  
Now give me the disk.  


CHEMICALS teeters over, falling on TEMPLAR, knocking the gun from his 
hand. The beakers of chemicals SMASH all around Templar 
Ilya sprints for the stairs.  
Templar grabs for his gun, lying in a puddle of CARBOLIC ACID. He grabs the 
gun; the acid burns his flesh. He drops it and races for the stairs.  



Templar comes up; sprints after Ilya.  


freezes. And Ilya and Templar are suddenly staring down the barrel of -- 


soldiers behind it.  
Ilya and Templar duck. The tank FIRES. The MISSILE PROJECTILE explodes 
from the tank's barrel, flies through the mansion's front door over Ilya and 
Templar's heads...  




down, revealing ANOTHER TANK at the mansion's rear, lumbering toward it.  
Ilya slams the door shut and whirls on Templar. They trade blows. Ilya has 
the better of this. He shoves Templar aside and races back through the foyer.  
Templar recovers and races after Ilya, tackling him in the middle of the floor.  
They roll on the floor, trading vicious blow after vicious blow, when --- 


Templar and Ilya look up in horror as -- 


Templar and Ilya dive away. The chandelier CRASHES 
spectacularly in the middle of the foyer, exploding like a glass grenade. A 
HUGE PIECE OF CRYSTAL hits Templar in the side of the head, opening a 
gash, dazing him.  
There's no place to go. Except up.  
Ilya races for the staircase.  
Templar recovers and takes up the chase again.  
Up the staircase they go.  
A SECOND TANK MISSLE slams into the dome, imploding it.  
CHUNKS OF STONE and MASONRY fall on Ilya and Templar, knocking them 
both backward.  



RACKS OF CHEMICALS in beakers fall to the floor, SMASHING. The chemicals 
begin to ooze together.  
A chemical reaction is occurring. The mixing chemicals begin emitting smoke.  



below. Two men drag a crate into the office. They open it, revealing an  


tri-pod...  


continue up the staircase. Ilya reaches the mezzanine. He climbs atop the 
balustrade and jumps to the lip of the crater in the dome. He pulls himself up.  
Templar repeats Ilya's actions: climbs atop the balustrade and jumps to the 
lip of the crater. As he pulls himself up... ILYA appears.  
He compresses his foot against Templar's knuckles.  
Templar grimaces. There's no way out this time.  
There's a burst of ORANGE LIGHT as A TANK SHELL explodes on the roof, 
knocking Ilya off his feet, allowing -- 





mansion. Tretiak's men inside return the fire.  
Harry, Remy and Frankie run up, looking with alarm at the vicious firefight.  
Realizing Templar is within...  



other fires, and -- 



courtyard, blowing its turret off.  
Tretiak's men fire assault rifles from the windows.  
No one's surrendering. It's a fight to the death...  



nighttime St. Petersburg skyline looming in the background and, below, three 
Russian tanks firing shell after shell into the mansion.  
Across the exploding, crumbling rooftop, Ilya and Templar go. A TANK SHELL 
explodes in front of Ilya.  
Ilya falls, concussed by the shell. Templar dives upon him, wrenching the 
COMPUTER DISK from Ilya's pocket.  
Ilya slams his forearm into Templar's head. The disk flies from Templar's 
hand, scuttles across the roof shingles, falling through a crater...  


They get to their feet, circling each other. Their footing is not trustworthy, like 
ice in Spring.  
Tank shells SLAM into the mansion's upper architecture and roof. A shell hits 
the mansion's east wall, detaching the DRAIN PIPE running up it.  
Ilya draws a SWITCHBLADE. Backing Templar up.  
Templar's at the very edge of the building.  
There's no place to go.  
Templar's feet are unsteady. Because the cornice of the building is crumbling 
beneath him. ...  


opening, and...  


The drainpipe sags under Templar's weight, bending... And it stops. Templar 
hangs there, bobbing up and down above the alley between the mansion and 
the adjacent building, fifty feet below.  
Ilya turns back.  
He's going after the disk.  
Ilya jumps through the crater to the mezzanine and races down the 
staircase...while in the basement...  



mix...  



KA-CHUNG. It gives. It gives again. The drainpipe is about to break. Templar 
looks down into the flames and demolition below...  



all around him.  
Ilya's eyes are wild. He wants that disk...  


Clutches it. It's finally in his hands.  
He goes for the staircase. ...  



more volatile...  



could just get to that adjacent building...  




chemicals in the lab detonate and -- 





engulfed in flame, still clutching the cold fusion disk.  



from the mansion, with Templar still holding on...  


the adjacent building.  
Templar pulls himself up and looks back at...  


crashes into a heap of rubble.  













stack of MAILED DONATIONS.  
They are LUCY and DELORES.  



most of Brooklyn. Ten bucks again.  



Guy's richer than god...  




gave a thousand this year. Lucy? 


She's staring at a check. Her eyes are like hubcaps.  















Lucy hands her the check. Delores starts hyperventilating. Lucy reads the 
letter: 



Thomas Foundation," 
for the benefit of scientific research.  





INSERT - THE LETTER is printed under a letterhead with a logo design: the 
stick figure man with halo, the same design as the tiepin Jillian gave Templar.  




And over this we hear a voice. We've heard it before...  



remember the night rainbow...  



The spires of Manhattan rise above him.  
The sun is setting...  



sky falls, have clouds for 
breakfast. If the birds 
forget their songs, 
listen to the wind...  


deal in these months.  



And Simon Templar joins Jillian here, speaking with her 
soul... 









And we can't be certain, it is vague, but the rays filtering through the 
bridgework seem to cast a halo over Templar's head.  
He is, now, The Saint.  







