Malcom X


Fourth draft (1991)
Screenplay by James Baldwin, Arnold Perl and Spike Lee
Based on The Autobiography of Malcolm X as told to Alex Haley


	FADE IN:



It is a bright sunny day on a crowded street on the black side of 
Boston. PEOPLE and KIDS are busy with their own things. 

SHORTY bops his way down the street. He is a runty, very dark 
young man of 21 with a mission and a smile on his face. He wears 
the flamboyant style of the time: the whole zoot-suit, pegged legs 
and a wide brim hat with a white feather stuck in the hat band.



3 	OMIT 

4 	OMIT



FOLLOW SHOT. Shorty dodges through the crowd with his packages. 
His smile is one of anticipation. He nods to a PAL without 
stopping; eyes a COUPLE OF CHICKS dancing on the street, but is 
not dissuaded.



Shorty has his jacket and hat off, his sleeves rolled up. He is like a 
surgeon preparing for an operation. His equipment is spread out on 
a table: can of lye, large mason jar, wooden stirring spoon, knife, 
the eggs. His actions have the character of a ritual: each thing 
being done just so, in time-honored fashion.

He slices the potatoes and drops the thin slices into the mason jar.
He adds water and makes a paste of the starch.

Behind Shorty is a spirited barbershop conversation. ONE MAN is
getting a haircut; TWO OTHERS are watching (TOOMER, JASON)
one of them from behind a newspaper. A middle-aged barber, 
CHOLLY, is doing most of the talking.


		After I hit the number that woman wasn't no good 
to me at all.

	The men laugh.

	ANGLE - Shorty pries open the can of lye, whiffs it. It's good and 
strong. He pours some in the mason jar, stirring with the wooden 
spoon. He cracks the eggs into the mixture and stirs. He waits as 
fumes rise and feels the outside of the jar as it gets hot.

	ANOTHER ANGLE - The barbershop SEEN from a door, slightly 
ajar. A woolly head, entirely in shadow, peers out. 

				CHOLLY'S VOICE 
		She says I'm cheap cuz I won't cop her a diamond 
ring. Had the indignation to call me a cheap 
black sunovabitch to boot.

				TOOMER 
		And when a black woman call you a cheap black 
sunovabitch you've been called a cheap black 
sunovabitch.

	Cholly is annoyed. It's _his_ story. 

				CHOLLY 
		Will you let me tell it?

ON SHORTY - He opens the bulky package he has been carrying, 
unfolds a large rubber apron and gets into it. Now he dons a pair of
rubber gloves.

				SHORTY 
		Where's Homeboy?

He is all ready; one of his hands is filled with a huge glob of 
Vaseline. His manner is indignant as if he were asking the whereabouts 
of an exasperating child.


		Red's in the head, man.


		You mean hiding in the head.


		Hey, Red. Your man's here and waiting on you. 

His hands full, Cholly opens the door with his feet and MALCOLM comes 
out, a big, gawky, bright-faced country boy, wearing downhome clothes 
and an expression of apprehension.


		Gonna get that first conk laid on, hunh, 
Homeboy?


		Man, don't scare him more than he's scared 
already. Ain't too bad...

	Malcolm allows himself to be led to an empty chair, where Cholly drapes 
him with a double sheet, tucking it tightly around his neck and adding 
a protective collar of paper.


	...Like anything else. First time a chick gets her 
cherry popped, she might put up a little fight. But 
pretty soon you can't give her enough. Right, 
Homeboy?



Malcolm gulps, his eyes on the fuming mason jar. 

Shorty starts massaging a great quantity of Vaseline into Malcolm's 
scalp, covering his neck and ears as well. All the men have gathered
around, involved in the ritual. For Malcolm it is closer to being a 
kind of execution.


		Git his forehead and eyebrows.


		I know what I'm doing.

	Shorty applies the Vaseline to that area.  Now he brings over the
steaming jar and places it nearby.

SHORTY (contd)
Listen. You pull my coat if it's still stinging 
when I get through 'cause this shit can burn a 
hole through cement.


		Hold tight, baby, and keep your eyes shut.

	Malcolm nods his head, clenches his eyes and grits his teeth. Shorty 
applies the congolene with a comb, working it into Malcolm's hair.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

				MALCOLM
		I thought you said it was gonna sting... this 
ain't nothin'.

	For a moment nothing happens, then the heat hits him. He yells, tries 
to catch his breath: his head is on fire.

                    MALCOLM (contd)
You motherfucker.  You're killing me. I'm 
burning up. My damn head is on fire.

He nearly leaps out of the chair, but the barber restrains him.

Shorty, utterly unmoved by the outburst, continues working the 
congolene into his hair. 

Malcolm breaks out of the chair wildly. But the three men drag him to a 
basin where Shorty has attached the shower spray. His cries filling the 
room, Malcolm is ducked under the spray. Shorty starts rinsing out his 
hair.


		Don't fight me, man. Let me git it out.

	Malcolm is a little relieved, he tentatively opens his eyes, then he 
feels the congolene again and there is another outburst. Shorty forces 
his head under the spray, spurts the water all over his head, wetting 
Malcolm and the shop in the process.



8 	OMIT




		Well, Homeboy, you almost there. Turn around.

	Shorty is supervising as Malcolm tries on a zoot suit. He slips into 
the jacket...

	Shoes-off, Malcolm steps into the tight-fltting peg-legged pants ......
dons a wide-brimmed hat with a bright blue feather.... Finally, fully 
outfitted, he leans forward toward his new image in the full-length 
mirror, twirling a long, dangling key chain.


		Well, all right, then.


		Well, all reet, then.

	The transformation is complete. The two laugh and slap hands. 

10	EXT. ROXBURY STREET - DAY

	Malcolm and Shorty come strutting down the street: two conked,
zoot-suited sharpies. Hometown boy has departed. And the CHICKS on the 
street notice them, especially Malcolm, the taller of the two, the 
lighter-skinned, the more dominant. They walk imperiously past, fully 
aware of their impact.



	FREEZE FRAME. He becomes a STILL.


		When my mother was pregnant with me, she told 
me later, a party of Klansmen on horseback 
surrounded our house in Omaha.

10A 	ANGLE. KLAN on horses in front of house.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
They brandished guns and shouted for my father 
to come out. My mother went to the door where 
they could see her pregnant condition... 

ANGLE. A pregnant Louise Little on porch.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...and told them my father was in Milwaukee, 
preaching. 

ANGLE. The Klan breaks all the windows in the house then rides off into 
the glorious D.W. Griffith _Birth of a Nation_ moonlit night. 

	CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
The hooded Klansman said the good, white 
Christians would not stand for his 
troublemaking, and to get out of town.

	ANGLE. The terrified Little children look out a broken window at their 
mother.



				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
They broke every window with their rifle butts 
before riding off into the night, their torches 
flaming.

	ANGLE. FRONT PORCH OF THE LITTLE HOUSE - AN EMPTY ROCKER ON IT

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd)
My father was not a frightened Negro as most 
were then and as many still are today. He was 
six feet four and very black...



He looks directly into the camera, wearing a Baptist Minister's robe.

 				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...and had a glass eye. He believed, as did 
Marcus Garvey, that freedom, independence and 
self-respect could never be achieved by the 
Negro in America . . .



	He wears a Garvey hat, ornate with gold braid.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...that, therefore, black men should leave 
America and return to the land of their origin.





				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
My father dedicated his life to his beliefs 
because he had seen four of his six brothers 
die violently...


preaching.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
...three killed by white men and one lynched. 
There are nine children in our family.

	ANGLE. The nine Little children. 

	CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE 

She is a pretty, mature woman and white-looking.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
My mother was an attractive woman, an educated 
woman, a strong woman.



	A posed wedding picture, serious but sweet.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
She was very light, her mama was raped by a 
white man. One of the reasons she married my 
father was because he was so black, she 
disliked her complexion and wanted her children 
to have some color.



	Flash bulb of camera flashes. 

11	OMIT



13 	OMIT 

14 	OMIT

15 	INT. ROSELAND STATE BALLROOM - NIGHT



	They both were posed for a picture. The music "FLYING HOME" is blaring 
as LIONEL HAMPTON and his band is killing. The music is WILD, the
dancing is frantic, the clothes are OUT, and the crowd is predominately 
BLACK, although there is a peppering of WHITES, especially white chicks.
And Malcolm is a little bug-eyed as he nudges Shorty, watching mixed 
couples on the floor. 

A BOY in extreme zoot-suit flips him; a WHITE GIRL in long blond
hair wigs him. Malcolm is a little open-mouthed.






People start moving off the floor, making room for the dancers. The 
music begins to get faster and more furious. 

	CLOSE - HAMPTON'S BAND - NIGHT 

It is a fast Lindy. People start clapping to the beat as they form a U 
around the DANCERS, with the band at the open end.



	TWO COUPLES are on the floor, dancing wildly. They are quickly joined 
by a half dozen OTHERS. These are the best dancers and constitute the 
main event of a Saturday night black dance. People crowd and push to 
get better vantage points and the competition is under way.



It is dominantly black, but there are some whites in the audience, 
mostly women. One is SOPHIA, a spectacular blonde with a degree of
refinement, something of a thrill-seeker. Many of the men try to catch 
her eye, but for the moment Sophia is just watching, looking for no one 
in particular, but nonetheless looking.



	Getting ready to enter the fray, the GIRL takes off her shoes and 
bounces out on the floor barefoot with her partner. Their advent is 
greeted with cheers and ad libs. Clearly the crowd has its favorites. 

	WIDER SHOT

The music gets faster and the dancing takes on a more frantic and more 
remarkable quality. 

	FOLLOW SHOT - MALCOLM 

He is looking for his partner, the girl he brought and now he sees her. 
He makes his way through the watching audience. 

	CLOSE - LAURA 

She is a fine chick, cool and beautiful. She smiles as she sees Malcolm 
approaching.

TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm stand together, delighted to be with one 
another, starting to move to the music, as they watch the dancers.


		Come on, baby, let's show 'em how.

	Laura smiles shyly; she's willing.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
You better get out of them shoes, girl.

	Laura laughs, goes quickly to a bench and changes into a pair of 
sneakers.



	Because of the competition, Laura and Malcolm begin at high speed. In a 
moment they are executing the most intricate steps of the "flapping 
eagle" and the "kangaroo." Malcolm starts boosting her over and around 
his hips, then boosting her over his shoulders. Laura is the perfect 
partner. She loves it.



	So does the crowd, who loves new stars. There are ad lib remarks: "Go,
man, go." "Hey, Red." "Mmmmmm ummm."



	A big, fat, hefty BLACK WOMAN takes Shorty out to the dance floor, and 
she takes the lead. As they do the Lindy she is slinging Shorty around 
like a rag doll. This woman slides him through her legs and Shorty has 
had enough, he runs off the dance floor, and hides.

	TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm are, in the phrase, cooking on all burners 
now; and when they execute an especially intricate step, even Hamp 
waves over.

	Malcolm is sweating and flushed and enormously elated. He sees that 
people are watching him, goading him on. He notices that Sophia, in 
particular, has not taken her eyes off him; she is clapping in time to 
his steps.

	Seeing new stars in the making, the other dancers move to the side of 
the floor, marking time, yielding the dance floor to them. Laura and 
Malcolm go into a solo.



	The crowd loves it. Malcolm and Sophia are very aware of each other. 
The finale is the classic drag, with Laura hanging limp around 
Malcolm's neck as he capers off the dance floor to the spontaneous 
applause of the audience. 

	CLOSE SHOT - SOPHIA (SLO-MO) 

Clapping enthusiastically -- in open admiration. 

	CLOSE SHOT - SHORTY

	Waiting to catch them as they come off. Shorty is whistling and shaking 
his hand appreciatively. He is also looking out for his dance partner.


		Hey, man, gimme some skin.


		Shorty, this is Laura.




		'Lo. I've got to freshen up.


		Now you come back.

	Laura laughs as she goes. She surely will be back.


		That's a fine chick.


		Fine as May wine.


		Except she live on the hill and got a grandma.


		Make it too easy and it ain't no fun.

	Then his vision catches Sophia, who is approaching him. She makes a 
simple, direct gesture, "Want to dance?" Malcolm eyes Shorty and 
wordlessly glides into Sophia's arms.



	Immediately from the glances of the other men at the dance, he is the 
cynosure of all eyes. He has new status. It's a heady feeling because 
she is the first white girl he has ever been with socially who is not 
an obvious whore. He begins to show off a little, cuts a few fine 
steps.

	TWO-SHOT. They are dancing closer than before. Sophia begins to rock 
his black world. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Trying to play it cool -- but he is beginning to pant. Not from the 
dancing, but from the situation: a gorgeous white chick asking for
it.


		Why don't you take your little girl home, Red, 
and come on back?

	He stops in his tracks. He can't believe it.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Just walk. Don't run. It'll be here when you 
get back. 

He can only grin.

18	EXT. LAURA'S HOUSE - ROXBURY - NIGHT 

The porch of a respectable house. Malcolm with Laura; he anxious to get 
away.


		I better not come in.


		I ain't stupid.


		I mean it's late, baby.


		I know where you're going.


		I'm going to bed. I gotta work tomorrow, need 
my rest.

	Laura walks to the door.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Baby, I'll call you tomorrow.


		What for? I ain't white and I don't put out. 

The front door opens, it's Laura's grandmother, MRS. JOHNSON.


		'Night, Mrs. Johnson.

	He runs down the porch steps.



	The lone light emits from the car radio which plays The Inkspots' "IF I
 	DIDN'T CARE."



	Sophia pulls her tight sweater over her head to expose two full ripe 
white breasts. Malcolm's eyes are popping out of his head. NOTE: It's 
very unusual for women not to wear a bra back in that day but you might 
say Sophia was way ahead of her time.


		Malcolm, look at them. Have you ever seen white 
breasts like these?



	He shakes his head.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Put your black hands on them.

	He is paralyzed.

SOPHIA (contd) 
Please do as I say.

	Malcolm mumbles something. He then kisses Sophia as if his black life 
depended on it and he commences to kill it.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Hey, baby.

 	She stops him for a moment, but he buries his head in her long neck.

				SOPHIA (contd) 
Am I the first white woman you've been with? 

She already knows the answer. He laughs.


		Sheeet, you ain't. I had aplenty.


		...That isn't a whore?

Knowing she's right, Sophia becomes the aggressor. 

A beat -- both panting -- then Malcolm stops abruptly. He raises his 
hand to his face, then to Sophia's hand which is still caressing him.


		That's alright. Baby, take your time. Sophia's 
not going anywhere. I told you to walk, don't 
run.


		Shhhh! I don't like women that talk.



She shrugs, then moves to embrace him.


		Who wants to talk? 

The couple starts at it again. 

19A	INT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

	On the screen, Bogart and Cagney are blasting away the dirty, flat-
footed coppers with machine guns. It's one of those great Warner 
Brothers gangster B movies, maybe _The Roaring Twenties_.



	Malcolm and Shorty sit, transfixed in their seats.


		Don't you know, you can't hump the Bogart.


		Eat lead, coppers.



	A bright, sunny day, long shadows in the park. The Commons is almost 
empty. Two improbable zoot-suited blacks race past trees, and run over 
the grass. Malcolm and Shorty are playing Cops and Robbers while 
PASSERSBY stare.


		Bang, bang. You're dead.


		Naw, you missed me, copper. Try this on for 
size. 

Malcolm fires an imaginary tommy machine gun at Shorty.


		I forgot to tell you I'm wearing a bulletproof 
vest.


		The hell you are.


		I'm tired of always playing the cops. I wanna 
be Bogart sometimes.


		You're too small to be Bogart.


		I'm not too short to be Cagney.

	Shorty shoots Malcolm from behind.

				SHORTY (contd) 
Pow. Take that.

	Malcolm acts as if he's been hit.


		Ahhh! You got me, you dirty, filthy, rotten, 
stinking copper, only a low-down yellow rat 
bastard would shoot a man in the back.

	Malcolm starts to stagger, this is a long drawn out Hollywood drawn-out 
death a la Cagney death in _Public Enemy_. 

	LOW ANGLE - MALCOLM

	Malcolm falls directly into the camera, face first, and Shorty stands 
over him.


		He use to be a big shot.



22	OMIT

23 	OMIT 

24 	OMIT 

25 	OMIT 

26 	EXT. THE TROLLEY TRACKS - NIGHT (REMEMBERED TIME)



	CLOSE EARL LITTLE 

Earl Little's face is in the same exact position as Malcolm's from the 
previous scene. His mouth opens in terror as the moving trolley comes 
closer and closer to the black man lying on the tracks.



	A room, clinically empty; table, chair, and MR. HOLWAY. He is putting 
papers into his briefcase; the hearing is concluded.


		What you mean took his own life?!


		I'm sorry, ma'am. You heard the verdict. A man 
bash in the back of his head with a hammer, lay 
down on the tracks and kill himself! We merely 
act on the verdict. We don't make them.

	He is nearly out the door.


		Do you pay or don't you?


		Read the policy, ma'am. It clearly states.





	Malcolm lies in bed, naked under the sheet. A half-empty whiskey bottle 
and an ashtray full of butts are on the night table: last night's 
partying.


		You like 'em scrambled soft or hard, sweetie?


		C'mere.

	WIDEN TO SHOW SOPHIA at the stove fixing eggs. She wears an apron and 
nothing else. It's a nicely furnished middle-class apartment.


		Sweetie, they're almost ready.


		You hear me, girl?

She shrugs, shuts off the burner, smiles and ambles toward him. 

				SOPHIA 
		You the man. 

				MALCOLM 
		You better believe it. 

She starts to sit down on the bed next to him. 

MALCOLM (contd) 
Sit over there.

He points to a nearby chair. Sophia makes an amiable hand-shrug and 
complacently goes.

				SOPHIA 
		You evil this morning. 

				MALCOLM 
		What's your story, baby?

	He doesn't want to hear her; he wants to talk. He goes right on: 

MALCOLM (contd) 
You one of them white bitches can't get enough 
black dick. Is that what you are?

Sophia smiles. She aims to please. Malcolm smacks the bed next to him. 
She gets up and comes over.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Take it off.

	She takes off the apron.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Now kiss my feet. Kiss 'em!



As Sophia bends to do so.


		Feed me.

	ANGLE. Sophia now has the scrambled eggs on a plate at Malcolm's side. 
She spoons some into his mouth. He chews and swallows slowly, then 
grabs her head and brings it to his. A long, brutal kiss. Then he pulls 
her head away by the hair. She looks at him: anything he wants.


		Yeah, girl; that's your story. When you gonna 
holler "rape," sister?


		Me?


		You will, baby -- if the time come.


		Lemme feed you, sweetie, while they hot. 

Malcolm lays back on the pillow and she holds out the eggs to him.


		Sure wish your mama and papa could see you now. 
And that ofay you gonna marry. 

30	EXT. A BEACH - BRIGHT SUNLIGHT - DAY

	Malcolm and Laura are on a deserted Cape beach. They are dressed but 
have their shoes and socks off, and he has his trousers rolled up. They 
walk, like birds, avoiding getting their feet wet as the waves roll in.


		Malcolm, you can be anything you want. You got 
class and you're smart.


		All them books you read and you still don't 
know nuthin.


		I do know I love you.

Laura stops him and moves to him. Her kiss is a tender one, exploratory. 
Then Malcolm responds, embracing her fully. Her arms go around him as 
they both drop into the sand. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM AND LAURA


		Oh, Malcolm, I love you. Please, there's no one 
around. Now?

	Malcolm turns his head from her, he gets up.


		Let's go.


		Why? Is it because of your white gal? Folks say 
you're running around town with her.


		Save it, baby. Save it for Mr. Right, 'cause 
your grandma's smarter than ya think.

	She looks at him.


		She raised me, my mother died when I was six. 
Is your mother alive?


		Yeah, she's alive.



32	OMIT


33	INT. DRUGSTORE - EVENING 

Laura is eating a banana split. Malcolm is smoking and drinking coffee.


		You know how dumb I was? I used to think that 
"Not For Sale" was a brand name.

	Laura looks over. She doesn't understand.



	Louise's hand reaches for a small sack of flour stamped "Not For Sale." 
She brings it down on the table with a hard, controlled whap.


		I did knock.

	Louise doesn't look up.


		Did you hear me say come in?

	WIDEN TO SHOW Louise with a WHITE SOCIAL WORKER, MISS DUNNE complete 
with pad, pencil and goodwill. Huddled out of sight, but nonetheless 
visible, are five small BLACK CHILDREN.


		There's no point in fighting about it. I'm 
sorry. May I sit down?

	Louise is very aware of the children and struggling for self-possession.


		As you nice enough to ask, we'll git you one. 

One of the children brings over a chair. Miss Dunne sets out her papers.


		It's the same questions, Mrs. Little. Since the 
death of your husband--


		Murder.


		-- there is a serious question as to whether --


		These  are  my  children. Mine. And they ain't 
no question. None.


		I think sometimes, Mrs. Little, candor is the 
only kindness.



				MISS DUNNE (contd) 
All of your children are delinquent, Mrs. 
Little, and one, at least, Malcolm is a thief.


		Get out.


			(still sitting) 
Your control over your children, therefore--


		Did you hear me?!


		You'll regret this, Mrs. Little.


		If you don't move out through that door, you're 
going to be past all regretting.

	The terror-stricken children huddle together.

	FREEZE FRAME. It becomes a still.


		We were parceled out, all five of us. I went to 
this reform school and lived at this woman's 
house. She was in charge.




			(motherly, friendly) 
This is your room, Malcolm. I know you'll keep 
it clean.

34B 	A DINING ROOM TABLE. FIVE WHITE BOYS AROUND IT.


		This is Malcolm, our new guest. We'll treat him 
like a brother.




		I was special. The only colored kid in class. I 
became a sort of mascot. Like a pink poodle.




		I didn't know then that I was a nigger.



34E	MALCOLM SPEAKING BEFORE HIS CLASS. 

34F	MALCOLM DOING HOMEWORK. 

34G	A HORSE HAVING ITS TEETH EXAMINED.


		He's bright.


		They talked about me like



		MRS SWERLIN (contd) 		MALCOLM'S VOICE (contd)
Good grades. 			I wasn't there. Like I was some
Fine athlete.			kind of pedigreed dog or a horse.
President of his class.		Like I was invisible.




	OSTROWSKI is talking to Malcolm, it's after school, the classroom is 
empty.


		The important thing is to be realistic. We all 
like you. You know that. But you're a nigger 
and a lawyer is no realistic goal for a 
nigger...


		But why, Mr. Ostrowski? I get the best grades. 
I'm the class president. I want to be a lawyer.



	Laura and Malcolm. Neither is talking. She is simply watching him as he 
sips his coffee and puffs on a cigarette. 

36A 	INT. OSTROWSKI'S CLASSROOM - DAY


		...Think about something you can be. You're 
good with your hands. People would give you 
work. I would myself. Why don't you become a 
carpenter? That's a good profession for a 
nigra. Wasn't your pa a carpenter?

	Malcolm is silent.

				OSTROWSKI (contd) 
Jesus was a carpenter.






		It's not the end of the world, Malcolm.



38 	EXT. A SIGN - BLINDING SUNLIGHT - DAY

	It reads "KALAMAZOO STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE MENTALLY INSANE"



	The room is totally white and Louise sits in a white smock at a window 
in a rocking chair. 

	CLOSE LOUISE 

As she rocks.


		I said it just as plain, I said, don't let them 
feed that boy no pig, because he got enough of 
the devil in him already. I told her she ain't 
got no reason talk to me that way cuz' my hair 
blow in the wind. You want my skin. All right, 
I'll give it to you. I'll scrape it off. See 
how you like it.

	ANGLE - Louise starts to sing a Negro spiritual. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

He has been standing there in deep pain all along. 

	THE SOUND OF A SPEEDING TRAIN IS HEARD.



	The crack train of the New York, New Haven 
the New England countryside.



	THREE ELDERLY BLACK WAITERS and Malcolm wearing a sandwichman's uniform 
are crowded around a portable radio in the galley where food is 
prepared. The four stand around TULLY, a bland-faced personification of 
fine Pullman service. They are all listening to the JOE LOUIS-BILLY 
CONN heavyweight championship fight.


		Nigger, shut up so we can hear.


		C'mon, Joe.


		Turn it up, Tully.


		It is up. Fool be quiet.


		Tully, move the antenna. . . .

	Tully turns some knobs.


		This Mick is tough.


		Joe is just playing possum. He's waiting for an 
opening. 

The waiters are acting as if they are at ringside.


		A left jab to the jaw and a right cross, scored 
by Louis and Conn is hurt, as Louis rips a 
right to the jaw. Conn is staggering, but he 
won't go down. Conn bops a left hook, he's 
reeling around the ring. Louis hooks a left and 
a right to the jaw and Conn is down. 

The waiters are going crazy.


		He's taking the count, four, five, six, seven, 
he's on his back, eight, nine, he's getting up, 
no! The referee says it's over. The bout has 
stopped.

The waiters are all jumping up and down when the galley door opens. MR.
COOPER, the white man in charge of the kitchen, pops his head in.


		What in hell's going on?

	In a moment's notice Tully and the others have resumed their customary 
servient roles.


		Nothing, Mr. Cooper.


		Got a lot of hungry customers out there.


		Yes sir, Mr. Cooper, soup done finished.


		On my way, Mr. Charlie.

	Cooper eyes him narrowly.


		The name is Mr. Cooper and don't you forget it. 
Mr. Cooper.


		The winner and still champion, Joe Louis, but 
what a fight Billy Conn gave.



43	OMIT

44	OMIT

45	INT. A PASSENGER TRAIN - DAY 

As Malcolm hefts his sandwich basket and a large container of coffee 
down the aisle, hawking as he goes.


		Get your good haaaam and cheeeeese sandwiches. 
I got coffee, I got cake and I got ice cream 
too. Right chere.



				BLADES 
		Hey, boy. Gimme a cheese on white and coffee.

	Malcolm's mood is exuberant: the fight is still in his ears. He makes 
the delivery with a flourish and a smile.


		Yes, sir. Best in the house.


		You mighty pleased with yourself, boy.


		Yes, sir. I aims to please.


		I like you, boy.


pushes it in Blades' face. 

45B	BACK TO THE PASSENGER CAR 

Normality again: Malcolm finishes serving him with complete servility. 
He pulls out a bill.


		Keep the change.

	And takes a satisfying bite out of his thin sandwich. 

46	EXT. THE RAILROAD TRACKS IN HARLEM - P.M. 

As the Clipper surfaces in Harlem, pulls up to the 125th Street 
station.



	Malcolm, out of uniform and dressed in his zoot suit, comes down from 
the Park Avenue station in Harlem. He is hit with the sights and sounds. 
Everything delights him: the noise, the lights, the women, the pimps, 
the signs, the windows, the crowds, the laughter, the music.





50	OMIT

51	ANGLE - CROWD 

A CROWD OF PEOPLE run by Malcolm yelling and screaming.


		The Brown Bomber, The Brown Bomber, Joe Louis, 
the heavyweight champion of the world. Joe got 
the belt back. Lawd have mercy. Great day in 
the morning.



He runs after them.

50B 	EXT. 125TH AND LENOX AVENUE

	All traffic has stopped, there is a huge spontaneous celebration going 
on. Black folks are everywhere, it seems as if all of Harlem is out on 
the streets. The citizens of Harlem are hugging, kissing, drinking, 
dancing, folks are hanging from street lamps, yelling out their 
windows, holding up hand-made JOE LOUIS banners, everyone has great 
reason to be joyous. The heavyweight champion of the world is a BLACK 
MAN -- JOE LOUIS, THE BROWN BOMBER, he has regained his championship.



	Malcolm quickly looks at his watch, he's running late for his train, as 
he fights his way through the crowd like a salmon going upstream, the 
CAMERA CRANES up to see him eventually get lost in a sea of BLACK 
HUMANITY "cutting loose." 

								FADE OUT.



56-	OMIT 





	Malcolm, newly conked and sharp as a tack (zoot suit, trouser crease 
like a knife's edge, orange knob-toed shoes) walks toward his goal: 
Small's Paradise.

	The street is crowded with PEOPLE, KIDS and HUSTLERS.


		Slow down, daddy, what's your hurry? Lemme show 
you somepin brand new.

	Malcolm smiles "No thanks" keeps moving.


		Hey, man, hundred-dollar ring -- diamond; and a 
ninety dollar watch. Take the both of them for 
a quarter; twenty-five bucks.

Malcolm waves; he's not having any. Goes on.

58	EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT

	Before entering, Malcolm sharps himself a bit, picking off some lint,
cocking his hat. And enters.

59	INT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT

	The restaurant is crowded, both at the bar and at the tables beyond.
The immediate impression is of subdued well-being, of decorum, of easy 
affluence. This is the world Malcolm wants into. He digs it, drinking 
in its details.



A big man, FOX, accidentally bumps into Malcolm almost knocking over.


		The word is excuse me.


		Look, country boy, you shouldn't have been in 
my way.

	Everyone becomes quiet in the bar.

				FOX (contd) 
So what are you gonna do? Go run home to your 
Mama.

	Malcolm grabs a bottle off the bar counter and with lightning speed
brings it crashing down on Fox's head. As he lays on the floor with 
head bleeding, Malcolm kicks him in the stomach _two times_. It's done,
the fight is over and people pull him off of Fox.


		Don't ever again in life step on my Florsheims 
again, and never talk-bout my mother.




		Gimme a whiskey.

	BARTENDER pours him a double.


		I ordered a single, Jack.


		The double's on that gentleman. Jack!

	He points.

	ARCHIE AT THE TABLE - FROM MALCOLM'S POV

	The elderly man nods. He is big, he is very black. The same color as 
Malcolm's father. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	He raises his glass, toasts Archie and downs it. Then leaning into the 
bar, asks:


		Who is he, man?


		That's West Indian Archie.


		Whut's he do?

	The bartender would not normally answer this, but Malcolm is the man of 
the moment, so the bartender speaks:


		This and that.

	Malcolm nods, then looks over again at Archie -- in appreciation. 
Archie wiggles a finger for him to come over.



	Malcolm is standing.


		Sit down. We ain't fixing to eat you. You look 
brand new in town. Pretty handy with a bottle.


		He had it coming.

	Malcolm sits. There are no introductions. He just nods at SAMMY and 
	CADILLAC.


		What they call you?


		Red, and I ain't no punk.


		You better not be. Cause if a cat toe you down 
in this town, you better stand up or make 
tracks.


		Man live by his rep.


		That's a fact. What you do, boy?


		I'm working trains. Selling.


		Bet you like that shit.


		Keeps me out of the army.


		When they want your ass, won't nothing keep you 
out.


		Not this boy... I ain't fighting their war. I 
got my own. Right chere. Heard tell you're a 
good man to know.


		Heard where?


		Where I come from. Boston.

	Sammy and Cadillac are watching a little skeptically. Archie is 
flattered.


		Sombitch and I ain't never been to Beantown.


		Man's rep travels.


		How 'bout that?

	Then seeing Sammy and Cadillac's dubious visages, Archie adds:

				ARCHIE (contd) 
You ain't bullshitting me, is you, boy?


		My papa taught me one thing: don't never 
bullshit a West Indian bullshit artist.

Archie laughs. Even Sammy smiles. Cadillac still holds his judgment.


		Is your papa West Indian?


		No, my mama. She's from Grenada.


		I like you, country.


		Only where'd you get them goddam vines.


		And them shoes. Oh, my.


		Yeah, got to do something about you.


		You putting a hurtin' on my vision.

	Sammy covers his eyes. Malcolm plays off the insults.


		Where can I get a hold of you?


		YOU can't. I'll get a hold of you.


		Lemme write it down for you.

	Malcolm reaches for a pencil.


		Don't never write nothing down. File it up 
here, like I do.
(touching his head) 
'Cause if they can't find no paper they ain't 
got no proof. Ya dig?


		Yes, sir.

	Archie looks at him sharply.


		Boy, look me in the face.

	Malcolm does so.

ARCHIE (contd) 
Did you just now con me?


		Yes, sir.


		Why?


		'Cause I want in. And it don't take a lot to 
know you there, daddy.

Archie and Sammy laugh at his directness. Cadillac smiles. Archie 
pushes back his chair, about to get up. 

				ARCHIE 
		I got me a little run to make.

	Malcolm has suddenly been excluded and he wants desperately back in.


		Can I run with you, Mr. Archie?

	Archie eyes him, weighing him seriously.


		I like your heart and I like your style. You 
might just do, Little. Lessen you got to git 
back to that train job.


		I done told the man what he could do with his 
train.


		When?


		Just now.

	The three established hustlers smile at the newcomer in their midst.


		Come on, baby. We going shopping...

60	OMIT

61	OMIT

62	OMIT



	Malcolm is looking at himself in a mirror in Archie's room. He has on 
the full outfit now, together with a new white on white shirt and a 
Sulka tie. Looks great.


		Just the middle button, baby. Just the middle 
one.

	Malcolm buttons the jacket and turns around, demonstrating for Archie's 
inspection.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
You looking good, Little. Real clean. Clean as 
the Board of Health. But you missing something.


		What?


		Frisk me, baby. Give me a real pat down.

	Malcolm doesn't understand, but he senses something -- and becomes 
excited. Archie has walked over to him.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Go ahead. Do me.

	Malcolm frisks him carefully: pats his sides, his pockets, under his 
arms, his legs. Archie is clean to the touch.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
(triumphantly) 
And I'm still carrying.

He smacks the small of his back. Then, reaching under his coat, he 
takes a revolver out from the middle of his back. And hands it to 
Malcolm.



	Holding the deadly instrument, fascinated by it, hefting it, feeling 
its power.


		It's yours, baby. Put it on.

Malcolm slips it carefully into the small of his back, behind his 
trouser belt. His first gun: the feeling shines in his eyes, Bogart has 
become a black man.

ARCHIE (contd) 
How's it feel?


		Solid, daddy.


		Okay, baby. Now you outfitted. You ready to 
tackle the street?


		Let 'em come. I'm ready.

64	INT/EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS - SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS 

A FIVE DOLLAR BILL. CAMERA GOES IN for the last three digits. 

64A	STOCK MARKET BOARD at the end of a day's trading. GO IN for the last 
three numbers.




		Let us turn to the Gospel according to St. 
John. Chapter 3, Verse  83.




	Malcolm scribbles the number onto a piece of paper.



	Ringing up an amount: $2.98.




	Malcolm's hand writes out the number.



	It reads "New York to Chicago." PAN DOWN TO SHOW "Train arrives 1:05."




Archie with Malcolm as the latter writes down "1, 0, 5."


		I told you less paper, less trouble. 

				MALCOLM 
		I'm working on it.


		I keep all my numbers in my head. I've never 
written any down.

	He taps his head.  

64E 	CLOSE - FACE OF AN ELDERLY WOMAN


		I saw it in my dream. 5, 5, 5. And last week my 
sister had a dream and she hit.




		I got it from Ching Chow. It got to be 2, 5, 1.



66 	OMIT 

67 	OMIT 

68 	OMIT 

68A 	INT. MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT



	WE ARE TIGHT ON Malcolm's intense face, he is pulling on a fat joint. 
We hear BOGART blasting his way out of a police blockade. 

A phone rings.



70 	OMIT



 	There is music playing. Wordlessly, Archie sprinkles a few grains of 
fine crystal onto a round shaving mirror. He slides it across a table 
to Malcolm and hands him a short straw. Sophia sits next to Malcolm; 
she and Archie are already high. Malcolm leans over the mirror, placing 
the straw in his nostril.



	In the mirror (something satanic about him) -- as he sniffs the cocaine 
well into his nose.

A beat as he leans back waiting for the drug to take hold, Malcolm 
looks into dressing mirror.

				ARCHIE 
		It hit?


		Nnnnnnn!

Malcolm with gun in hand does his Bogart gangster imitation.


		Ain't nuthin' in the world to give you that 
real deep cool. Like girl. You there?


		I'm there, daddy. Wheww. I'm cool enough to 
kill.


		Bet you are.



	FREEZE FRAME


		Malcolm, you're so funny.

	She continues to laugh. 

	BACK TO REAL TIME.


		You got any money.

Before Sophia can answer he grabs her pocketbook, dumping all the 
contents on the floor but the dough.


		Baby, I was gonna give it to you.


		Well, bitch you move too slow.


		Sometimes you got a big ugly mouth.


		Yeah, and I'm putting my money where my ugly 
mouth is. I'm putting you back in the numbers 
right now.
(to Sophia) 
Baby, what's today?

	Sophia is not sure of this, or anything else.


		August 2nd. I think. Yeah.

	She laughs at her achievement.


		Daddy, put me down for a combination. Combinate 
me, daddy: 8, 2, 1. You got me? 8, 1, 2; 1, 8, 
		2...

	With each number he throws a bill at Archie.

				MALCOLM (contd)
1, 2, 8; 2, 8, 1.  I git 'em all?

				ARCHIE 
			(angrily taking the money) 
I'll take your goddam bet.

	Malcolm slides his tongue down Sophia's throat. 

72	OMIT

73 	OMIT

74	OMIT

75	EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT 

A miserable night, raining and cold. Malcolm turns into the bar.



	Shaking off the rain as Malcolm walks through. He is now a familiar 
figure to the bar's DENIZENS. He is met with ad lib cries: "Hey, 
Little," "Have a taste," from the men; and from the women: "Come here, 
sugar," "Where you been?"

	Malcolm acknowledges the greetings, strolls down in the bar. It's 
immediately clear that a subtle change has come over him. He is no 
longer the neophyte but a well-groomed, smooth, fully polished hustler.

	ANGLE - BOOTH 

Malcolm sits into the booth and motions for the waitress.



	A fine copper tan waitress comes to him.


		I thought you said we were going to the movies 
last night.


		I say a lot of things.


		And like a fool I believe it.


		Do your job, Get me a bourbon on the rocks and 
a pack of Lucky's.

	Honey stares at him.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
I said now.

	She leaves. He leans his head back against the booth --


		Daniel come in yet, Honey?

	Malcolm turns his head sharply at the sound of the voice. It's 
familiar, a sound from the seemingly distant past. He looks toward the 
bar and sees the women who asked the question.



	It's Laura, but not the Laura we last saw. She is still young, still 
vulnerable, but she is bolder, more self-assured, more vividly dressed.
She is unaware of Malcolm.


		Ain't that him now?

	ANGLE FAVORING DANIEL. He is a young, cocky, nervous, gingerbread 
colored boy who comes over to her quickly. He goes to the corner of the 
bar and quickly grabs Laura's neck and kisses her hungrily.


		Hey, gorgeous, how you been? Waiting long? 
Lemme see you. Wow!

It's obvious he's a junkie. And in need of a fix. QUICK!



	Honey places his drink and cigarettes before him. He's watching, taking 
it all in immediately. Laura is clearly crazy about Daniel. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	He looks, then belts down his drink. 

	CLOSER - LAURA AND DANIEL 

Daniel motions to her pocketbook and she takes out a five-dollar bill. 
He grabs it, and bolts for the door. 

	WITH MALCOLM AND HONEY 

She has been watching Malcolm.


		You know that gal?

				MALCOLM 
		Mind your own goddamn business ... She comes in 
a lot?


		'Bout every other night, Red.


		With him?

Honey nods.

 				MALCOLM (contd) 
She know?


		If she got eyes, she do.



Walking toward the door, looking for Daniel. She leaves the bar. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM AND HONEY


		Is she hooking?


		Not yet. But the way things going, that boy 
gonna turn her out any day.

	Malcolm smacks the table in frustration.

				HONEY (contd) 
You stuck on her?



Malcolm's glass on the table is trembling. 

				MALCOLM 
		Shut up, bitch.

He raises his arm to hit her and it is held back before it can find its
mark.


		Don't do that.

	Archie is standing above him. Malcolm nods, and Archie lets his arm go; 
standing next to him is Sophia.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Honey, he didn't mean it.

Archie wiggles his fingers and Honey goes, but not before throwing 
daggers at Malcolm and Sophia. Archie sits down, takes out a cigar. For 
a good beat there is a coolness between them. Then Malcolm reaches over 
and lights Archie's cigar. Sophia stares at her man, he then motions 
for her to sit down beside him.

				ARCHIE (contd) 
Thanks. You got it. Who's beating on you, Red? 
You looking a little up tight.

The father-son thing is back, but Malcolm will never again be the 
student.


		Daddy, where's my money?


		What you talking?


		You owe me six big ones.

	Archie looks at him, non-comprehending.


		1, 2, 8 hit, didn't it?


		You din't have no 1, 2, 8.


		Was you that high? Old man, I threw the slats at
you. I said to combinate me.


		You never had it.


		The bitch was there.

	Archie doesn't even look at Sophia.


		Shit, what else she gonna say?


		Then skip it, man. But you slipping, baby. You 
done slipped.

	Archie is controlling himself. Everyone in Small's is all ears, a
falling out between Malcolm and Archie -- their reps are at stake.

	ANGLE. Archie looks at Sammy. Sammy is neutral. Archie digs in his 
pockets, comes up with a roll. He peels off six $100 bills and throws 
them on the table in front of himself, as he gets up.


		Oh, sit down, man. What you tasting? I'm buying.


		I ain't drinking hot piss with you. Come on, Sam.


		Be right there.

	Archie goes.

SAMMY (contd) 
Twenty-two years he didn't never forget no 
number.


		Got to be a first time, daddy-o.


		He gonna, check the collector he turn into. His 
rep is on the line, boy, and so's yours. If you 
lying, one of you is dead.


		Ain't gonna be this mother.

	Sammy goes.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Come on, sweetlips, I got us some g-i-r-l, 
girl. Let's you and me fly.





78A	OMIT 

79	OMIT 

80	OMIT 

81	OMIT

82	OMIT 

83	OMIT

84	OMIT 

85	EXT. ONYX CLUB - NIGHT 

The well-known 52nd Street nightspot features Billie Holiday. A 
stand-up cutout of her is outside.



	This is a plush nightclub, with a mixed black and white AUDIENCE. Some
of the hustlers from Small's are in evidence. 

	CLOSE - BILLIE

Lady Day starts into "YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT LOVE IS."

	ANGLE - TABLE

Malcolm and Sophia high as a kite and on the town. 

	CLOSE - ARCHIE

He makes his way toward Malcolm's table. There is murder in his eyes.

	ANGLE - TABLE


		You're a damn liar.



				ARCHIE (contd) 
You _took_ me, you bastard, and now I'm taking 
you.




		It's me or you, ain't it, Pops?


		You know it.


		I'll give you back the 600.


		I don't want your money.


		I'm wearing, Archie.


		There's two guns on you.

	His eyes gesture. Malcolm looks: 

	MALCOLM'S P0V 

Sammy at the nearby bar: his hand in his coat pocket.

	CLOSE - ARCHIE

	His hand is also in his pocket.


		And every cat's watching, ain't they? It's a 
toe-down.


		That's what it is. Walk on out.


		Let Billie finish.


		Now.

	Archie backs away from the table, his gun on Malcolm. 

ANGLE. As Sammy moves a step toward Malcolm, Malcolm rises in his seat.


		You had the number.


		Baby, I got to let this old man win. Keep the 
faith, and tell Billie I'll see her later.



	She knows what's going on.

	ANGLE - Sammy and Archie are walking behind Malcolm, when he pushes a 
waitress into their path with drinks flying everywhere, Malcolm darts 
away.

87	INT. ENTRANCE TO THE TOILET 

He races into the men's room.

ANGLE. Archie and Sammy run after him.



There is an open window. Archie is leaning out, looking both ways. 

89	EXT. OUTSIDE THE MEN'S ROOM WINDOW - NIGHT FROM ARCHIE'S POV

	A tiny alleyway. No one is visible.

				ARCHIE 
		The dirty yellow rat bastard.




		Don't push it. You way ahead. You back on top. 
That boy loves you, man.


		What you say?


		He gave it to you, Archie. He did.



	Malcolm comes running out of an alleyway and onto the street. He stops 
to catch his breath, to regain his composure. He is shook up, 
frustrated, but mostly saddened. He then runs down the block and into a 
	CLOSEUP.




	CLOSE - EARL

Earl is sitting up in bed, he wakes his sleeping wife Louise, next to 
her is a baby in a crib, another child. Malcolm sleeps between Earl and 
her.



Outside the house are 5 members of THE BLACK LEGION. They are dressed 
in the style of the KKK, but in black sheets rather than white. WE SEE 
gasoline cans being passed around.


		Somebody out there. Wake the children. 

Earl starts to put on his overalls and reaches for his gun which sits 
on a nearby chair when an explosion of flames greets the house.

				EARL (contd) 
Everybody out. OUT! OUT! Get the kids. 

	ANGLE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM 

Flames roar through the room and the Little kids are hysterical. Louise 
rushes in and pushes them past the fire, she has infant in hand covered 
in a blanket.



91C 	EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

	The entire house is in flames. The Little family stands in front of it, 
just out of harm's way. 

	ANGLE - BLACK LEGION 

They sit on their horses watching the results of their work. 

	CLOSE - BLACK LEGION LEADER


		Boy, good thing we're good Christians. Nigger, 
it's time for you to leave this town.




		This here is 'pose to be a free country.




		Rev, we warned you 'bout that Garvey preaching, 
stirring up the good nigras here. Boy, next 
time you're a dead nigger.

	CLOSE - EARL

				EARL 
		I ain't a boy. I'm a man, and a real man don't 
hide behind no bedsheets.

	Earl takes his pistol out from behind his back and fires above their 
heads.

				EARL (contd) 
Take these here bullets for dem sheets.



	The bullets send the Black Legion flying into the glorious D.W. Griffith
moonlit night. 

	ANGLE - HOUSE 

The burning house collapses behind the Little family. 

	ANGLE - EARL AND LOUISE


		Earl, I know you a better shot than that. You 
shoulda killed 'em all, shot 'em dead.


		Just wanted to scare 'em, they won't be 
bothering us no more.



	Young Malcolm stares at his father while the house still burns behind 
him, no doubt drawing on the great courage displayed by his father.


		They won't be here no time soon. I'm a MAN! 

91D	EXT. STREET - LANSING - NIGHT (REMEMBERED TIME)

	It's raining cats and dogs and it's foggy. We hear a big thud, then a 
grunt and Earl Little falls across the trolley tracks, the sound of men 
running away is heard in the distance. 

	ANGLE - A STREETCAR APPROACHES



He has been beaten to a bloody pulp.





He opens his one good eye. 

	CLOSE - STREETCAR MOTORMAN 

He sees something ahead in the fog and rain. 

	ANGLE - MOTORMAN'S POV 

	CLOSE - HAND REACHES BRAKE LEVER 

	CLOSE - STREETCAR WHEELS STOPPING, SPARKS FLY 

	CLOSE - MOTORMAN 

Winces and then makes the Sign of the Cross. 

	ANGLE - LONG SHOT OF PASSENGERS 

Jumping out of the streetcar to attend to Earl.


		Somebody get a doctor.


		No doctor, get him a priest.


		My father's skull, on one side was crushed in, 
and then laid across some tracks, for a 
streetcar to run him over. His body was cut 
almost in half. My father, Earl Little lived 
two and a half hours in that condition. Negroes 
were stronger than they are now.



	Shorty is driving with Sophia in the front seat. Malcolm is in the 
back. They are in the country -- outside New York.


		Man, I'm glad we got you out of there. With 
West Indian Archie on your ass, your name on 
the wire -- Boston the best goddam place in the 
world for you -- things are too hot and it's 
not even summer.

	Malcolm has withdrawn within himself. He takes out a packet of cocaine 
and sniffs it.


		We'll take it easy. I got a place fixed up on 
Harvard Square. How's that sound?


		Yeah. Cool it and lay dead for a while, Homeboy. 
And don't worry none.

	The drug takes hold. Malcolm is out of it.

				SHORTY (contd) 
I'll stake you, baby. I got my band. I'm 
blowing great sax. Hell, you ain't even heard 
us--

	He and Sophia keep talking it up, trying to bolster Malcolm. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM

	Stoned, his nose running, Malcolm stares out of the window at the
receding landscape. FREEZE FRAME.


		Like every hustler I was trapped. Cats that 
hung together trying to find a little security, 
to find an answer -- found nothing. Cats that 
might have probed space or cured cancer -- 
(Hell, Archie might have been a mathematical 
genius) -- all victims of whitey's social order.

	Music of a dance combo heard in BG.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
Three things I was always scared of: a job, a 
bust and jail. I realized then I wasn't afraid 
of anything. I didn't care.





	Shorty, Sophia and PEG face Malcolm -- stoned in a chair. PEG is 17,
Sophia's kid sister and Shorty's date.


		You got to eat somethin', Red.


		You want eggs, baby?


		Yeah and get a slave, too, huh, baby?


		I ain't doing bad.


		Man, the name musicians ain't got shit. How you 
gonna have something? I need a stake, a bundle, 
a grand. My woman can't afford it; my homey 
ain't got it. How about you baby? What you got?

	Peg smiles, afraid of Malcolm.


		Jesus, Red, she's just a kid.


		Jesus ain't got nothin' to do with this. 

Shorty eyes him with amazement. The degree of Malcolm's depravity 
surprises even him.


		Surprise you, baby? Well, that's the way it is. 
What kind of scratch you got on you? Turn out. 
Let me have it. All of you--

	Glances exchanged among Shorty, Sophia and Peg. Shorty reaches into his 
pocket.



Malcolm with Sophia, Shorty and Peg around him.

				MALCOLM 
		We gone rob this town blind. Anybody want out 
say so. 

Nobody answers; they'll go with Malcolm.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Okay. I got the stake and I got a fence. I need 
a driver.


		How about Rudy?


		Who's Rudy? 

				SHORTY 
		Yeah, Rudy.

								JUMP CUT:

95A 	SAME LOCATION - LATER

	RUDY is with them. He is a good-looking, very-light skinned black, 
tough as they come.


		I'm half wop, half nigger and ain't afraid of 
no one.


		What can you do?

	They are in the process of appraising each other, seeing which one has 
the bigger penis.


		You name it, feller.


		Rudy does catering. Rich joints on Beacon Hill.


		That ain't bad.


		Tell him about Baldy.


		Yeah. This rich ofay, like he's 60. I give him 
a bath on Friday.

	Peg and Sophia are listening, a little horrified.

				RUDY (contd) 
Then I put him to bed and pour talcum powder on 
him like a baby. He gets his jollies off.


		So what about him?


		So? The man got silver, china, rugs--


		Might be all right.


		Might be, shit. Man, I know this town. I got my 
own fences. Who the hell are you? Who put you 
in charge?

	Malcolm smiles easily.


		You want to be the head man?


		That's right.


		Head nigger in charge?


		I'm the man.


		Okay, baby. Let's flip for it. Flip this.

	He takes out his gun, a .38 revolver. He dumps the shells on the table, 
then reinserts one shell and twirls the barrel.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
I'll flip first.

	He puts the revolver to his own head.


		Don't.

	Malcolm squeezes the trigger. It clicks. Now he twirls the barrel again 
and hands the gun to Rudy.


		Your flip, baby.

Rudy is staring at him; so are they all. Malcolm puts the gun to his 
temple again.


		Red, for God's sake-- 

He pulls the trigger a second time. Click. Now he twirls it again.


		Christ, Red, no--

				PEG 
		I can't stand it. 

Malcolm puts the gun to Rudy's head.


		Your turn, Rudy. You want me to flip for you?


		Jesus Christ, no. Okay, okay. You got it, you 
got it! You're the boss. 

A beat.


		Don't never try to cross someone who ain't 
afraid to die.


		You the man!

	Nodding accord from Rudy and Shorty. Sophia can hardly stand.


		All right. We'll start with Old Talcum Powder. 
You draw the house, where everything is. You 
and Peg go out and buy them tools like I told 
you. We hit tonight on account of in the 
daytime some of us got that high visibility. 
Ya dig?

	Rudy is at a table drawing a diagram; the girls have left. Shorty and 
Malcolm alone at a window.


		What did you do, Homey, palm it?


		Yeah.

He breaks open the gun -- the bullet is in the next slot to be fired. 

MALCOLM (contd) 
Palmed it right in the goddam chamber. 

				SHORTY 
		Jesus Christ, Homey, you are nuts. 

Malcolm starts laughing: a silent, hysterical laugh. 

96	EXT/INT. A BEACON HILL HOUSE - NIGHT

	The robbery, IN QUICK CUTS: 

--A door lock is picked by Sophia.

96A	--Pencil flashlight passes an upstairs window. 

96B	--Rudy in the car.

96C	--Silver removed from a drawer by Shorty. 

96D	--Peg walking down the street, as lookout. 

96E	--Malcolm takes off his shoes.


wallet from within inches of his pillow. Then, more boldly, picks up 
the man's hand and removes a ring from one of his fingers. Shorty 
watching with bated breath, he's about to have a heart attack.



	A Boston matron, MRS. CRAWFORD, is showing the girls her collection of 
U.S. silver. In a fine New England home.


		Beacon Hill survey.


		We're doing a survey for the Athenaeum Society 
-- We wondered if you'd permit us to include 
your collection in the catalog of Great New 
England Antiques--?


		Now these are my prizes. My Paul Revere silver 
coffee service.




		Lovely, just lovely.

	Sophia is casing the room carefully as the matron continues.


		And my husband's collection of scrimshaw should 
be included.


		May we see it?


		Won't you step this way?



98	OMIT 

98A	OMIT

101	INT. A COURTROOM - DAY 

The prisoners face the bench: Peg, Sophia, Shorty, Rudy and Malcolm.


		The average first offender gets two years for 
burglary. We were all first offenders. That's 
what Sophia and Peg drew--


		Two years in the Women's Reformatory at 
Framingham.


		But our crime wasn't burglary. It was balling 
white girls. They gave us the book.


		Burglary, count one -- 8 to 10 years; count two, 
8 to 10 years; count three, 8 to 10 years...

	He continues giving them 8 to 10 years, behind Malcolm's comment: 

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X 
		Fourteen counts of 8 to 10 years.


		The sentences to run concurrently.


		Shorty thought he hit us with 114 years till I 
explained what concurrently meant. It meant a 
minimum sentence of 10 years hard labor at the 
Charlestown State Prison. The date was February 
1946. I wasn't quite 21. I had not yet begun to 
shave.

	CAMERA HAS GONE IN for a TIGHT CLOSE SHOT of Malcolm's face: a hardened 
hustler, pimp, dope peddler and now jailbird at the ripe old age of 20.  
	FREEZE FRAME.

								CUT TO BLACK.





	It is the afternoon lockup: about 3:30 P.M. The line of PRISONERS 
stands in front of their cells, as two guards, WILKINS and BARNES, one 
white, one black, slowly walk past the P.M. check. 

The procedure is routine, done without emotion, as it is done three 
times a day: the black guard calls out the prisoner's name, the 
prisoner answers with his number, then steps into his cell. Whereupon 
the white guard slams the door shut and locks it.


		Jackson.




	Door is slammed and gate locked. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Each time a gate is locked his tension increases. His face is a mask 
hiding his fury, violence and the hunger of an advanced junkie who has 
not had a fix in over a week.


		Crichlow.




	Same procedure.

	ANGLE. SHOOTING PAST MALCOLM, FAVORING TWO OTHER PRISONERS. The guards 
are approaching Malcolm's cell. Past Malcolm are two experienced 
PRISONERS who have been watching Malcolm during the scene. They whisper 
surreptitiously without moving their bodies, and barely moving their 
lips. One of the prisoners is PETE, a huge barrel of a man, a lifer --
beaten by the system and a lifetime of incarceration. The other is 
BEMBRY, a man of no great physicality, but who possesses immediately 
the gift of leadership. It is clear that Pete and others look up to him 
with great respect.


		Looka Satan.


		I see him.

	Bembry's language is very unhip. He speaks carefully. He respects words 
and he respects himself, something which sets him apart from all the 
other prisoners.


		He bout to bust.


		No, he's not gonna bust. But he's not gonna fix 
his face to please them, neither.

ANGLE. The check-in has reached the man next to Malcolm.

				GUARD WILKINS 
		Harrington.





		Yeah. Lucky Seven.

	Door slammed and locked. 

	CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM 

The guards are now in front of him.


		Little.

	Malcolm doesn't move.


		State your number.

	Malcolm doesn't answer, doesn't blink.


		Little.

	ANGLE. Bembry in the FG of the scene. 

				BEMBRY 
		He's a new fish, Mr. Barnes. Give him a break.

	It's a bold step by Bembry and the prisoners look over at him with
admiration. Barnes accepts the irregularity and calls over to Bembry.

				GUARD BARNES 
		0kay, I'll give him a break. Now state your 
number, Little.




		I forgot it.



Shaking his head in anguish. He knows what's coming. 

ANGLE. Barnes makes a small gesture and Wilkins seizes Malcolm, 
grabbing his head and uniform at the same time. Stenciled on the chest 
of his faded dungarees is Malcolm's number. The guard bends Malcolm's 
head to the number, shoving the material in Malcolm's face.


		Can you read, boy? Thass your number.


		Now say it.


		I'm Malcolm Little, not no goddam number.


		Oh, yes you is, baby; thass all you is.

	And slams Malcolm hard. He slumps to the floor.


		Two days in the hole. Take him.

	Wilkins drags Malcolm off as Barnes resumes the roll call.

				GUARD BARNES (contd) 
Burnham.


		A 551613, sir.





	Only the faintest light comes into the hideous room, which consists of 
a mattress and a slop bucket. If Malcolm were to stretch out his arms, 
he could touch both walls. He lies half on the stone floor, half on the
mattress.

	A clang as the heavy door is opened.


		Time's up. Get on your feet.

	Malcolm stands.

				GUARD CONE (contd) 
Little, state your number.

	A beat as Malcolm stares at the man, refusing to answer.

				GUARD CONE (contd) 
You just drew two more days.

	And slams the door shut. 

104	INT. SOLITARY - NIGHT

	It is almost pitch black. We can almost smell the stench of the room. 
Malcolm sits stony-faced, his back against a wall. 

				TRUSTEE'S VOICE
		Water.

	The long spigot of a watering can is pushed through an opening in 
the cell door. Malcolm, animal-like, leaps at it and bends the spout, 
wrenching it off in his fury.



106	INT. SOLITARY CELL - DAY 

	TWO-SHOT - A WHITE CHAPLAIN AND MALCOLM 

				CHAPLAIN GILL 
		Do you know what a friend you have in Jesus, 
son?


		Preacher, take your tin Jesus and the Virgin 
Mary, both, and shove 'em.

	Door slam.



Malcolm is alone at the bars: the hope of freedom filling his mind.

	Malcolm pulls at the bars, tries to shake them in impotent fury. He 
pounds the walls. Empty, sick, defeated, his nails scratching the 
walls, he slides to the floor of the cell.

It is the low point of his life: nowhere to turn, nothing to hope for.



	Guard Cone is shaking him into consciousness.


		All right, Little. Get up.

	Malcolm just about makes it. The guard is in half-focus. 

GUARD CONE (contd) 
State your number.

	He is beaten.




	A shower is heard.

109 	INT. SHOWER ROOM - DAY

	Malcolm stands with bowed head as the hot water cascades over his 
broken body. He lets it run and run, but it cannot really touch his 
problems. On a nearby bench are his clothes, his towel and the makings 
for a conk: lye, Vaseline, comb, etc.

	He turns for a moment as he sees he is being watched by someone. It's 
Bembry standing nearby. Malcolm turns away, trying to find solace in 
the water. He wants no part of the world or anyone, just to be left 
alone.


		I know how you feel. Like you want to lay down 
and die.

	Malcolm shows no flicker of interest or understanding.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
I brought you something.

	He puts down a small matchbox on the bench next to Malcolm's things. 
Malcolm eyes him like a snake -- but the punishment has reduced him to 
deep insecurity and his belligerence is more cautious than angry.


		Who the hell are you?


		Put it in a cup of water. It's nutmeg.


		Man, what do you want?


		You need something. It's not a reefer, but 
it'll help some.


		Man, get outa my face. I ain't nobody's punk.

	But he steps out of the shower, fills a tin cup with water and empties 
the contents of the matchbox into it. And drinks it down quickly.


		Sit down or it might knock you down.

	Malcolm sits, toweling himself as the spice hits him. For the first, he 
smiles; this is the first relief he has tasted in prison. He at Bembry 
wonderingly, unable to figure him out.


		If you ain't trying to punk me, what's your 
hype?


		I can show you how to get out of prison. And 
it's no hype.


		Talk, daddy, I'm listening. Hey that ain't bad. 
You got some more?


		That's the last stuff you'll ever get from me.


		What did you give it to me for then?


		'Cause you needed it. 'Cause you couldn't hear 
me without it.

	This is a new breed of cat; Malcolm has never met anyone like him. He 
eyes him closely, as he slips into his clothes.


		What in the hell are you talking about?

	He begins to conk his hair, but is paying attention to what Bembry is 
saying.


		I think you got more sense than any cat in this 
prison. How come you are such a fool?

	Malcolm looks over, piqued.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Nobody can bust out like Bogart does it, in the
movies. Because even if you get out, you are 
still in prison.

	Malcolm is putting the conk into his hair now.


		You ain't lying.

				BEMBRY 
		When you go busting your fists against a stone 
wall, you're not using your brains. Cause 
that's what the white man wants you to do. Look 
at you.

	These last words are spoken sharply with disgust. Malcolm turns his 
hands massaging the conk into his hair.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Putting all that poison in your hair.


		Man, you been locked up too long, everybody 
conks. All the cats.


		Why? Why does everybody conk?


		Cause I don't want to walk around with my head 
all nappy, looking like--


		Like what? Looking like me? Like a nigger?! 
Why don't you want to look like what you are? 
What makes you ashamed of being black?


		I ain't said I'm ashamed.

	He turns the water on to wash out the conk -- which has begun to burn. 
Bembry restrains him, holding his arm.


		Leggo. I got to wash it out.


		Let it burn. Maybe you'll hear me then.

	But it is burning now.


		Man, you better get off me.

	He wrenches away from Bembry and puts his head in the water.


		Sure, burn yourself, pain yourself, put all 
that poison into your hair, into your body -- 
trying to be white.


		Man, I don't want to hear all that.


		I thought you was smart. But you just another 
one of them cats strutting down the avenue in 
your clown suit with all that mess on you. Like 
a monkey. And the white man sees you and he 
laughs. He laughs because he knows you ain't 
white.

	Malcolm is drying his hair, finishing his conk. But some of what Bembry 
has said disturbs him.


		Who are you?

	Malcolm is completely humiliated. Bembry sees this and stops the 
barrage.


		The question is, who are you? You are in the 
darkness, but it's not your fault. Elijah 
Muhammad can bring you into the light.


		Elijah who?


		Elijah Muhammad can get you out of prison. Out 
of the prison of your mind. Maybe all you want 
is another fix. I thought you were smart.

	And he is gone. Malcolm stands looking after him, a long thoughtful 
moment. He is pulling the comb through his hair.



	PRISONERS are working on a beltline that stamps out and finishes 
license plates. Bembry is on the stamping machines, working as he talks 
to the other prisoners. Malcolm is painting the plates, a little 
removed from Bembry, but listening with interest. Barnes, with rifle, 
idles by a window.

	A whistle sounds, ending the work shift. The inmates quickly file out 
into the yard. Bembry stays. Malcolm is half decided.


		You taking the yard?


		I'm staying.

	Barnes gestures to Malcolm.


		Me too.

He goes.


		What you sniffing around for? I told you I gave 
you your last fix.


		I ain't never seen a cat like you. Ain't you 
scared talking like that in front of an ofay?


		What's he gonna do to me he ain't already done?


		You the only cat don't come on with that 
"Whatcha know, daddy" jive; and you don't cuss 
none.


		I respect myself. A man cuss because he hasn't 
got the words to say what's on his mind.


		Tell you this: you ain't no fool.


		Don't con me. Don't try...

				MALCOLM 
		Okay, okay.

				BEMBRY 
		Don't con me. 


		What do you do with your time?


		I read. I study. Because the first thing a 
black man has to do is respect himself. Respect 
his body and his mind. Quit taking the white 
man's poison into your body: his cigarettes, 
his dope, his liquor, his white woman, his 
pork.


		That's what Mama used to say.


		Your mama had sense because the pig is a filthy 
beast: part rat, part cat, and the rest is dog.

	Malcolm has been pondering all this and now grows animated as he thinks 
he has come to the essence of a hustle.


		Come on, daddy, pull my coat. What happens if 
you give all that up? You get sick or somethin'? 
I pulled a hustle once and got out of the draft.


		I'm telling you God's words, not no hustle. I'm 
talking the words of Elijah, the black man's 
God. I'm telling you, boy, that God is black.


		What? Everybody knows God is White.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
But everything the white man taught you, you 
learned. He told you you were a black heathen 
and you believed him. He told you how he took 
you out of darkness and brought you to the 
light. And you believed him. He taught you to 
worship a blond, blue-eyed God with white skin
-- and you believed him. He told you black was 
a curse, you believed him. Did you ever look 
up the word black in the dictionary?


		What for?


		Did you ever study anything wasn't part of 
some con?


		What the hell for, man?


		Go on, fool; the marble shooters are waiting 
for you.


		Okay, okay. Show me, man.



	WE CAN READ the fine print of the definition:


		Black, (blak), adj. Destitute of light, devoid 
of color, enveloped in darkness. Hence, utterly 
dismal or gloomy, as "the future looked black."


		You understand them words?


		Read it.

	PULLBACK TO SHOW Bembry and Malcolm in a small PRISON LIBRARY. No one 
else is in the book-lined room.


		I can't make out that shit.


		Soiled with dirt, foul; sullen, hostile, 
forbidding -- as a black day. Foully or 
outrageously wicked, as black cruelty. 
Indicating disgrace, dishonor or culpability.


		See also blackmail, blackball, blackguard.


		Hey, they's some shit, all right.


		Now look up "white."

	Bembry turns the pages of the dictionary to "w."

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Read it.




		White (whit), adj. Of the color of pure snow; 
reflecting all the rays of the spectrum. The 
opposite of black, hence free from spot or 
blemish; innocent, pure, without evil intent, 
harmless. Honest, square-dealing, honorable.

	Malcolm stumbles through the definition as well as he can. Bembry takes 
over the reading, giving it ironic emphasis.


		That's bullshit. That's a white man's book. 
Ain't all these white man's books?




		They sure ain't no black man's books in here.


		Then what you telling me to study in them for?


		You got to learn everything the white man says 
and use it against him. The truth is laying 
there if you smart and read behind their words. 
It's buried there. You got to dig it out.


		Man, how'm I gonna know the ones worth looking 
at?

	Bembry smiles at Malcolm. He is a remarkable man who always takes 
careful measure of his listener. He never talks down to his audience; 
he talks to them. (A manner Malcolm later will adopt.) Bembry can talk
funky or salty or, as we will see, in the cadence and eloquence of the 
Bible. Right now he goes into street talk.


		I'll pull your coat, daddy. Cause lots of these 
can't nobody read, be he black or white or a 
Ph.D. with their suspenders dragging the ground 
with degrees.

	Malcolm laughs. He likes and admires the man. Then caught by a passage 
he does not understand:


		Man, I'm studying in the man's book. I don't dig 
half the words.


		Look 'em up and and out what they mean.


		Where am I gonna start?


		Start at the beginning. Page one, the first 
one. Here--



	As Bembry's hand opens the book to page one.

	CLOSE IN ON A PICTURE OF AN AARDVARK WITH ITS DEFINITION


		Aardvark, noun. An earth pig; an ant-eating 
African mammal. Man, that sounds like the 
dozens.




		Read it and keep on reading. 

Malcolm's finger runs down to the next definition:


		Abacus, noun. An ancient and primitive Chinese 
counting device.


		If you take one step toward Allah, He will take 
two steps toward you.



112	OMIT

113	INT. MALCOLM'S CELL - NIGHT 

He is reading on his bunk as Barnes walks by. The lights in the cell go 
out. Malcolm looks up, annoyed at being interrupted. He shifts his 
position to the floor of the cell so that he can catch the dim light 
coming from the corridor and goes on with his reading. 

	CLOSE SHOT - THE BOOK 

Malcolm is studying the dictionary, the last of the "a's": the words
azimuth, Azores, Aztec, azure, etc. He reads a word, then holds his 
hand over the printed definition to test himself, half-mouthing its 
meaning. Malcolm is also copying the dictionary in a school book word 
for word.



	There are several books on the desk before Malcolm. WE SEE their 
titles: W.E.B. DuBois's _The Soul of Black Folks_, Carter G. Woodson's 
_Journal of Negro History_, Durant's _Story of Philosophy_, H.G. 
Wells's _Outline of History_, Spinoza, Thoreau, etc.


		Closing. Knock it off.

	Malcolm is surprised the time has gone so fast. He gathers up his books 
with care. He cherishes them, putting them back on the shelf carefully.


		You studying to be the first colored 
President of the States?



	The machines are idle; no one is in the room but Malcolm. He starts 
to reach inside his jacket when Barnes sticks his head in.


		You taking the yard or not?


		I'm staying.


		Then give me a butt.

	Malcolm takes out a half-filled pack of cigarettes, about to offer one, 
then pauses. Malcolm hands him the pack of cigarettes.


		Take 'em. I don't smoke no more.

	He takes the pack happily and goes. Malcolm reaches into his jacket 
again, takes out a book. WE SEE its title: Mahatma Gandhi's _My 
Struggle_. He sits next to the license press to read.



A baseball game is in progress. A BLACK TEAM is playing a WHITE ONE. 
Most of the CONVICTS are watching the game; partisanship at every 
pitch. A base hit gets a big reaction. 

	ANGLE - MALCOLM AND BEMBRY 

They are out along the right field wall. They walk throughout the scene.

ANGLE - The ball is hit over the fence for a home run. There is a big 
cheer from the black prisoners. Pete, the batter, trots proudly around 
the bases.


		Ole Pete ain't much in the head, but he can lay 
in there with the wood.


		Lemme tell you about history: black history. 
You listening?

	TWO-SHOT - Malcolm still watching the game.


		You pitch, baby; I'll ketch.


		The first men on earth were black. They ruled 
and there was not one white face anywhere. But 
they teach us that we lived in caves and swung 
from trees. Black men were never like that.

	Malcolm is listening to Bembry's intent statement.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
We were a race of kings when the white men went 
around on all fours.

	There is a crack of the bat and Malcolm turns to watch another base 
hit, by a black convict, stir the crowd.


		This a helluva game. Somethin's going on.

	He sees a black convict, CHUCK, nearby and calls over:

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Hey, whatsa score?


		10 to 1; we murdering them, Din't you hear?


		What?


		The Brooklyn Dodgers brought up Jackie Robinson 
and we pounding the hell out of them, 
celebrating.


		How bout that?


		Sure, white man throw us a bone and that's 
supposed to make us forget 400 years.


		A black man playing big league ball is 
something.


		I told you to go behind the words and dig out 
the truth. They let us sing and dance and 
smile -- and now they let one black man in the 
majors. That don't cancel out the greatest 
crime in history. When that blue-eyed devil 
locked us in chains -- 100,000,000 of us -- 
broke up our families, tortured us, cut us off 
from our language, our religion, our history.

	SHOTS OF THE FACES OF THE BLACK BALL PLAYERS AND THE CONVICTS

	In the stands, cheering and joyous.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Do they know who they are? Do you know where 
you came from? We are the Original People.

	Malcolm is listening to him now.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
What's your name, boy?

	Malcolm is startled; answers like a boy.


		Little.


		No. That's the name of the slave-master who 
owned your family. You don't even know who you 
are. You're nothing. Less than nothing. A zero. 
Who are you?



Wrapped in thought. 

	ANGLE ON MALCOLM


		I'm not Malcolm Little and I'm not Satan.


		Who are you?



Malcolm cannot answer because he truly does not know.

	A ball is hit. Malcolm watches its flight but his face is fixed 
somewhere between understanding and anger: it is the face of the future 
leader.


		I told you we are a nation, the lost Tribe of 
Shabazz in the wilderness of North America.



	The rays of the sun come through bars that cut across Malcolm and 
Bembry's face.


		Allah has sent us a prophet, a black man named 
Elijah Muhammad. For if God is black, Malcolm--


		Then the devil is white.


		I knew you'd hear me. The white man is the 
devil. All white men are devils.


		I sure met some.


		No. Elijah Muhammad does not say "that white 
man is a devil." He teaches us that the white 
man is the devil. All white men.



	Listening.


		Have you ever known a good white man in all 
your life? Think back, did you ever meet one 
who wasn't evil?

	A prison whistle is heard.



120	INT. A NICHE IN A PRISON WALL - P.M.

Malcolm and Bembry standing close together. The feeling is of someone 
taking communion: with Bembry the minister and Malcolm the communicant. 
Their voices are little more than whispers.


		The body is a holy repository.


		I will not touch the white man's poison: his 
drugs, his liquor, his carrion, his women.


		A Muslim must be strikingly upright. 
Outstanding. So those in the darkness can see 
the power of the light.

	Malcolm lifts his head.


		I will do it.


		But the key to Islam is submission. That is why 
twice daily we turn to Mecca, to the Holy of 
Holies, to pray. We bend our knees in submission.

	Bembry kneels in a praying position. Malcolm stands.


		I can't.


		For evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, 
implore His forgiveness, is the hardest thing 
on earth--


		I want to, Bembry, but I can't.


		--the hardest and the greatest.


		I can't.


		For evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, 
implore His forgiveness, is the hardest thing 
on earth--


		I want to, Bembry, but I can't.


		--the hardest and the greatest.


		I don't know what to say to Allah.


		Have you ever bent your knees, Malcolm?

	Malcolm laugh-snorts:


		Yeah. When I was picking a lock to rob 
somebody's house.


		Tell Him that.


		I don't know how.


		You can grovel and crawl for sin, but not to 
save your soul. Pick the lock, Malcolm; pick 
it.


		I want to. God knows I want to.



Malcolm holds a letter in his hand. He reads it carefully. He has read 
it several times before.


		I received a letter that day from the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad. The Messenger of Allah wrote 
me, a nobody, a junkie, a pimp and a convict.


		I have come to give you something which can 
never be taken from you: I bring you a sense of 
your own worth, the worth of one human being. 
The knowledge of self.

	The room becomes transformed. It is suddenly suffused with light. And 
standing in the cell with Malcolm is ELIJAH MUHAMMAD. He has 
materialized, but he can be seen through. He is MALCOLM'S 
	HALLUCINATION.


		It was like a blinding light and I became aware 
that he was in the room with me. He wore a dark 
suit and on his face I saw a pain so old and 
deep and black I could scarcely look at him. I 
knew I was not dreaming. He was there.


		I tell you that the most dangerous creation of 
any society in the world is the man with 
nothing to lose. You do not need ten such men 
to change the world. One will do. The Earth 
belongs to us, the Black man and whatever is 
around it, and on it and in it. Praises are 
due to him forever for bringing to us again, 
our self and our property, the UNIVERSE OF SUN, 
		MOON, AND STARS.


		And suddenly as he came, he was gone.

	The hallucination disappears.

				VOICE OF MALCOLM X (contd) 
And then I could do it.

	Malcolm goes down on his knees. There are tears in his eyes as he 
begins praying:




		Allah Akbar: all praise to Him who is 
all-seeing, all-understanding.

	He continues to pray.


		We are told that Saul, on the road to Damascus, 
heard the words of truth, he fell from his 
horse. I do not liken myself to Paul, but I 
understand. It happened to me.



	A poorly furnished, small, but immaculate room. There are two couches, 
a table set for eating, and, on the walls, a portrait of Elijah and a 
Muslim banner. It is dinner time in a Muslim home.

	SIDNEY, aged 20, a perfect specimen of the Fruit of Islam, stands 
behind his chair, waiting. Their mother, LORRAINE, a woman of Bembry's 
age, is seated, but she, too, awaits Bembry.




		In the name of Allah, the beneficent and the 
merciful to whom all praise is due.

	At the window Bembry saying the evening prayers.


		Dear Brother Malcolm: I am back in the bosom of 
Islam, praise Allah...

	He comes to the table, nods and sits. Sidney respectfully sits after 
him. Food is passed. It is simple fare: natural foods, milk, greens. 
The portions are small. They eat in silence, but there is warmth and 
love at this table.

				BEMBRY'S VOICE (contd) 
... We don't have much, but what we have is 
yours. Lorraine and my two sons join with me in 
saying that when you come out, which will not 
be too long, come straight to us.



	Malcolm is reading Bembry's letter as he waits his turn. There is a 
WHITE CONVICT in the chair, just being finished by a WHITE BARBER - 
SIMMONS. A BLACK BARBER - SLIM sits by. Both are convicts. NOTE: 
Malcolm now wears glasses, all that reading in his badly lit cell has 
ruined his eyes.


		You write thanking me. Don't thank me. Praise 
Allah. He did it all.


		Next.

	Malcolm starts for the chair. Simmons moves away to light a cigarette 
as Slim takes over.


		Dear Bembry. Please thank the Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad for the money and tell him I have not 
written him because I have not yet proven 
myself.



	Archie and Cadillac are reading a letter they have received. They look 
at each other incredulously.


		But I have written everyone else.



	Shorty is waving a letter he has received to his CELLMATE. 

				SHORTY 
		Look like Homey got himself a brand new hype.



	An immaculate room, well furnished. ELIJAH sits in a chair as Bembry
stands reading Malcolm's letter.


		"I wrote the Mayor, the Governor and the 
President, but for some reason I haven't heard 
from them"...

	Bembry laughs; Elijah smiles.


		Tell the Messenger of Allah that I have 
dedicated my life to telling the white devil 
the truth to his face. I greet you with the 
ancient words: "As Salaam Alikum."


		Wa-Alaikum Salaam.


		P.S. I finally worked my way through the 
"Z's"...





	A GROUP OF PRISONERS, mostly white, but with a goodly smattering of 
black convicts, are listening to a lecture by CHAPLAIN GILL.


		Are there any questions?

	ANGLE. Malcolm seated next to a black convict, raises his hand. It's 
the only hand up. The Chaplain searches for another questioner, but 
there aren't any.

	Pete, sitting next to Malcolm, whispers.


		Watch out, baby, this cat is heavy on religion.



		I see this has become a struggle between good 
and evil. Satan has a question.

	There is laughter from the convicts.


		Yes it is, Chaplain Gill. But I wouldn't want 
to say which one of us is what.

	Laughter, especially from the black convicts.


		Why don't you just ask your question?


		You've been talking about the disciples. What 
color were they?


		I don't think we know for certain.

	There are reactions from the convicts. Malcolm is sharply challenging a 
white man about color.


		They were Hebrew, weren't they?


		That's right.


		As Jesus was. Jesus was also a Hebrew.


		Just what is your question?


		What color were the original Hebrews?


		I told you we don't know for certain.


		Then we don't know that God was white.

	There is a strong reaction to this.


		Now just a moment, just a moment--


		But we do know that the people of that region 
of Asia Minor, from the Tigris-Euphrates valley 
to the Mediterranean, are dark-skinned people. 
I've studied drawings and photographs and seen 
newsreels. I have never seen a native of that 
area who was not black.


		Just what are you saying?


		I'm not saying anything, preacher. I'm proving 
to you that God is black.


	(Note: Try to get footage from _The Last Temptation of Christ_ [Willem 
Dafoe])


		God is black.



	Malcolm opens the door, the room is dark and he sees a small, slight 
man standing against the window, he doesn't move. This is the same man 
who appeared in Malcolm's cell, this is the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. 
Malcolm slowly moves toward him; he is completely humbled in his 
presence.



	He turns from the window to Malcolm.


		My son, you've been a thief, drug dealer and a
pimp and the world is still full of temptation. 
When God bragged how faithful Job was, the 
devil argued that only God's protective hedge 
around him kept him pure, the devil said remove 
the hedge and he will curse his maker. 
Malcolm, your hedge has been removed and I 
believe you will remain faithful.



	He cannot say anything and he drops his head, he is overwhelmed with 
heartfelt emotion.



	In contrast to the peaceful family scene, the room is a beehive of 
activity. Sidney is turning out leaflets on a mimeograph machine; 
Lorraine is busy making up a mailing list using 3 x 5 file cards; 
Bembry is recruiting on the telephone.


		How many you turning out?





		Make it 1000. We got a lot of fishing to do.


		Brother Malcolm, I want you to meet Brother 
Earl. He just joined the Nation.

	Earl moves toward Malcolm and extends his hands. Malcolm shakes it 
warmly.


		We can always use another good brother.


		I'm a willing servant for Allah.



	Sunday service has let out and Malcolm, Earl, and Sidney are "fishing." 
They're trying to convert the Black Christians. Malcolm speaks, while 
the others hand out leaflets.


		You think you are Christians, and yet you see 
your so-called white Christian brother hanging 
black Christians on trees. You say that white 
man loves you and yet he has done every evil 
act against you. He has everything while he is 
living and tells you to be a good slave and 
when you die you will have more than he has in 
Beulah's land. We so-called Negroes are in 
pitiful shape. Get off your knees praying to 
a picture of a white, pale blond, and blue-eyed 
Jesus. Come out of the sky. Build heaven on 
earth. Islam is the black man's true religion.



Malcolm is talking to a CROWD from a ladder.


		And that the white man is the devil. Yes, God 
is black and you are made in His image and 
don't know it. That's how brainwashed you are.

The crowd is listening, caught up in Malcolm's intensity.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
My brothers and sisters, they tell you you will 
sprout wings when you die and fly to heaven. 
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad tells you that's 
pie in the sky.



	Amid the listeners, watching their response.


		Have you ever seen a black man who wasn't down 
on his knees begging the Lord to give him in 
heaven what the white devil enjoys right here 
on earth?



They turn from Malcolm, moving a few steps away, and now are the 
audience on an adjacent SPEAKER. He is a young firebrand:


		The Harlem Council fights for rat control, for 
rent control and for community control of our 
schools.

	PAN CONTINUES to take in ANOTHER SPEAKER, a few feet away. WE SEE the 
street corner is Harlem's Hyde Park, with half a dozen SPEAKERS 
haranguing the crowd with half a dozen panaceas. That Malcolm is just 
one among many:

				SECOND SPEAKER
		If the man behind the counter ain't black, 
don't go in. Boycott the man. Be black. Think 
black. Buy black.




		Come to our Temple and hear the truth. Because, 
brother and sister, you are dead. Yes you are, 
mentally dead, spiritually dead, morally dead. 
And we are here to resurrect the black man 
back from the dead.



	A place where black women come to offer themselves for day work. 
SEVERAL ARE SEEN. A WHITE WOMEN comes up to one to interview her 
(bargain with her). Malcolm's voice is heard before he is seen, 
speaking to the women from a ladder.


		My beautiful sister, for you are beautiful. 
Beautiful because you are black. Because black 
is beautiful. You work in the white folks' 
kitchen so I don't have to tell you that 
they're devils.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
And you are putting yourselves on the auction 
block, letting them examine you like a horse, 
like a slave. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad 
teaches that you are black and should be 
proud...

	FACE OF ONE BLACK WOMAN, beginning to shake her head in accord.



	The SAME WOMAN, now at a Muslim meeting. The faces of other listeners 
(from the church and from the maids' market) are scattered in Malcolm's 
audience.

	The headquarters itself shows the progress Malcolm has made. It is 
better furnished, larger, and the chairs are filled. Bembry, Sidney, 
and Lorraine are in the back of the room, pleased with the growth. 
Malcolm stands at a podium.


		We're not American, we're Africans who happen 
to be in America. We were kidnapped and brought 
here against our will from Africa. We didn't 
land on Plymouth Rock, brothers and sister. 
Plymouth Rock landed on us.

	Reactions: laughter, interest. Ad lib "That's the truth."


		Put an end to your begging. No more "Please, 
Mr. White Man, Lawdy boss, brush me another 
crumb from off your table, kindly, sir."  We 
are a nation, a great nation and don't need a 
thing from them.

	Malcolm scanning the faces of his audience as they react. He sees 
someone he knows and blurts out boyishly (and winningly):

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Shorty!

	The crowd turns to Shorty, sitting embarrassedly in the audience.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Come on up here, man, and give us some skin. 
Here's a man, brothers and sisters, who shot 
up with me, who robbed with me, and did time in 
the white devil's jailhouse. Stand up, Shorty, 
and be counted--

	But Shorty is trying to hide from the spotlight. Malcolm comes down 
from the platform and walks to him.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Folks, the brother is shy and needs special 
attention. So would you excuse us, while Brothers 
Sidney and Earl take up the collection.

He embraces Shorty as the crowd laughs appreciatively and Brothers 
Sidney and Earl have a chuckle themselves.



	Shortly and Malcolm sit at a table. Shorty has a cup of coffee in front 
of him.


		I got to hand it to you, Homey. That's the best 
preacher hype I ever did hear.


		It isn't a hype, Shorty. And I meant what I 
said: join us.


		Come on, baby. I don't pay that shit no mind.


		The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says you should 
pay it all your mind. If you got a mind.


		Baby, I love you. Take it easy, greasy. How 
about a snort?


		I've been clean for twelve years, Shorty.


		You is something, Homeboy. My trouble is -- I 
ain't had enough stuff yet, I ain't et all the 
ribs I want and I sure ain't had enough white 
tail yet.


		How's the rest of the gang? You seen anyone?


		Well, Sammy's dead. Yeah, fell over in the bed 
with a chick twenty years younger than him. Had 
twenty-five grand in his pocket.


screaming, trying to push that dead weight off her.


		How about Old Cadillac?


staring in a MENTAL WARD, twitching, nose running.


		Hooked on horse. Been in and out of Lexington Ave times.


		You seen Sophia?


cooking while her husband hides behind the Wall Street Journal.




		I ain't seen Archie, but the vine tells it he's 
living somewhere's in the Bronx. If you can 
call it living.



	A knock on the door rouses Archie, by now an old and dying man. All the 
vigor is gone, all the life has ebbed out.


		Git the hell away, you bitch, I'll pay you 
tomorrow.

	Door opens, Malcolm enters.

  				MALCOLM 
		Hello, Archie.

Archie sits up from his bed and stares. He tries to bring back some of
his old juice, tries to stand up.


		My man, Red. Come on in, man. 
(then giving up) 
Hey, I can't make it.

	Malcolm has to help him lie back.


		Take it easy, baby.


		That really you, Red?

The contrast is shocking: Malcolm tall and straight; Archie ruined.


		You saved my life, Archie. Running me out of 
Harlem. When I think how close we came to 
gunning each other down, I have to thank Allah.

				ARCHIE 
		I wasn't gonna shoot you, baby. It was just my 
rep, that's all. And don't shit me now, but 
did you have that number? Tell me.


		I don't know. It doesn't matter. The thing is 
we got to get you back on your feet.


		Yeah. I got a couple a new angles ain't been 
figured yet. All I need's a stake and a 
chance--


		Can you use a few bucks? I ain't got much, 
but--


		No, man, I'm doing okay. Thanks. 

				MALCOLM 
		Take it easy. Lay down and don't think about it.


		Yeah.


		You could of been something, Archie, but the 
devil got to you.

	The old man is asleep.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
You know all the angles except how to live. 

135 	EXT. A STREET IN HARLEM - NIGHT

	Malcolm walks thoughtfully down the street; Archie is still on his 
mind, as he passes prostitute after prostitute. Once beautiful women 
now selling their bodies. He passes Laura, she has been turned totally 
out and she looks the part, there is no way he can recognize her. We do 
though. 

	CLOSE - LAURA

	She has just gotten a white John and leads him into an alley.


		Women who could be mothers, teachers, 
scientists...

	ANGLE - ALLEY

	Laura kneels down to unzip her John's pants.

				MALCOLM'S VOICE (contd) 
Who is going to raise our children?; men who 
might have been astronauts, composers,
engineers; Who is going to be the head of the 
households?--



	Malcolm is addressing a HUGE AUDIENCE. His tone is more intense, more 
personal than before, because of his recent encounters. In the 
audience, sitting with Bembry, is BETTY, a lovely dark-skinned woman. 
Her interest in Malcolm (true, also, for most of the other unmarried 
sisters) is more than religious.


		--and what has the white devil made of them: 
dead souls. Oh, my he has no conscience. He 
should fall on his knees and say, "My kind 
commits history's greatest crime against your 
kind every day of your life." But does he? No. 
He scorns you, splits your head with his 
nightstick and calls you nigger. If you've had 
it, then stand up and come forward. If not us, 
then who? If not now, then when?



	Many stand, some walk toward the podium speaking his name: "I'm with 
you, Brother Malcolm," "Praise Allah," "Me, Brother Malcolm."

	There is applause; some of the audience get to their feet -- Malcolm 
acknowledges their approval, trying to quiet them, but caught up in the
heady excitement of leadership.



	Both are moved by Malcolm's performances.


			(whispering) 
He ought to try to make it a little easier, 
Brother Bembry.


		Why don't you try telling him that, Sister 
Betty?



	The Muslim movement has grown enormously. The activity in this 
anteroom, leading to other rooms off it, shows that. Betty and Bembry 
stand before a Directory announcing activities in the Temple: MONDAY - 
Fruit of Islam Meeting; TUESDAY - Unity Night; WEDNESDAY - Student 
Enrollment; THURSDAY - Muslim Girls Training; FRIDAY - General
Civilization Class; SATURDAY - Swahili, etc.

	A stir of people and activity as Malcolm enters the anteroom. He 
excuses himself from a group of MUSLIMS, making his way toward Bembry.


			(little out of breath) 
Brother Bembry, can we fix it so our 
loudspeaker is heard on the street?


		I'm sure we can. This is a new sister, Sister 
Betty.

	Malcolm nods at her; she nods in return.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
The Sister lectures our Muslim women in hygiene 
and diet.

	Malcolm mutters "very good," but his mind is clearly on a million other 
details.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
The Sister stresses care of the body and 
regular eating habits.

	Malcolm is still distracted.


		The Sister wonders if the Brother knows what 
Harriet Tubman did between taking souls to the 
Promised Land?

	Malcolm is stopped. He looks at Betty.


		What?


		She ate.

	Malcolm laughs.

BETTY (contd) 
And the Sister suggests he put his actions 
where his mouth is.

	Malcolm's laughter is heard, in response.

138 	INT. MUSLIM CAFETERIA - NIGHT TWO-SHOT - BETTY AND MALCOLM


		Sure I'll speak to your class. But I'm a hard 
man on women. You want to know why?


		If you want to tell me.





	Malcolm sits next to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. The student and the 
teacher.


		If you want to tell me.


		Women are deceitful. They are untrustworthy 
flesh. I've seen too many men ruined or tied 
down or messed up by women.

								CUT BACK TO:



	Betty says nothing, she merely pushes the salad plate a little toward 
him. The food has thus far gone untouched. Malcolm continues.




		Women talk too much. To tell a woman not to 
talk is like telling Jesse James not to carry a 
gun or a hen not to cackle. And Samson, the 
strongest man that ever lived, was destroyed by 
the woman who slept in his arms.


		Shall I tell my sisters that we oppose 
marriage?

								CUT TO:




		No. We are not Catholic priests. We do not 
practice celibacy. If a woman is the right 
height for a man, the right complexion, if her 
age is half the man's plus seven, if she 
understands that man's essential nature is 
strong and woman's weak, if she loves children, 
can cook, sew and stay out of trouble--

								CUT TO:




		I think you've made your points, Brother 
Malcolm.


		What points?


		That you haven't time for either marriage or 
eating--

	Malcolm chuckles a bit.

				BETTY (contd) 
--and that women aren't the only ones who 
talk a lot.

	Now he bursts out laughing.



They are alarmed at Brother Minister's behavior. 

	TWO-SHOT - BETTY AND MALCOLM


		If you'll start eating, there is a question I 
have. Go ahead. Start.

	He takes a forkful of the salad.

				BETTY (contd) 
Considering today's standards of animal raising 
and curing meats, I don't fully understand the 
restriction on pork.


		Let me explain. No. I'll do better than that. 
I'll show it to you. Scientifically. But it's 
demonstration purely in the interest of 
science, you understand?


		Yes, I understand, Brother Malcolm. Purely 
scientific.



	Before a comparative evolutionary display showing the skeletons of
various animals, Malcolm is holding forth. Betty is dressed in a vivid, 
becoming red dress.


		Notice especially the claw, the jaw and the 
skull formation. This is the rat. This the 
mole. Here you have the aardvark and the 
boar...




		...All members of the pig-rodent family.


		I see your point.


		So it is not a matter of the breeding 
conditions or preparation of the meat. The meat 
itself is foul.

	ANGLE. As they saunter out, passing the huge skeletons of prehistoric 
animals now.


		Could we sit down someplace?


		I'm sorry. I've had you on your feet for hours.


		You've been on your feet for days. And didn't 
even finish your salad.




		You're the strawberry soda and you're the hot 
fudge sundae.

He plunks down the order before Betty and Malcolm. Malcolm takes a 
long, long satisfying pull on his straw. Then he sighs: 

				MALCOLM 
		That's something I haven't done in fifteen years.


		What?


		Sat down with a pretty girl and had an ice 
cream soda.


		How do you like it?


		Delicious.

	She laughs. He blushes.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Let's talk about you for a change.


		There's nothing to talk about.


		0h, yes, there is. I know a lot about you.
Brother Bembry briefed me.


		Oh? Purely scientific interest I'm sure.


			(a beat) 
You're from Detroit, near where I come from. 
You majored in education at Tuskegee. You're 
studying nursing and having trouble with your 
family.


 		I can handle it.


		They want you to quit the Muslims or they won't 
pay your tuition, isn't that it?


		You have enough worries of your own.


		No, good Sisters are rare. We need every one. 
Tell me something: how tall are you?


		Why do you ask?


		Just an idle question.


		If it's just idle, I won't answer it.

	She takes a bite of her sundae.

				BETTY (contd) 
But Brother Bembry says I'm tall enough for a 
tall man.


		How old are you, Betty?


		There's a few things you don't know about 
women, Brother Malcolm. They're possessive and 
vain.


		Are you?


		And dogged when I set my mind to something.


		What have you set your mind to?


		Being a good Muslim, a good nurse and a good 
wife.

	Malcolm takes a good look at the lovely woman in front of him, then a 
long sip from his ice cream soda.


		Brother Malcolm.

	Betty sees him first.


		It's Sidney.

	ANGLE. As Sidney runs to them at the table: 

				SIDNEY 
		Brother Johnson was attacked by the cops.


		There was a scuffle. The Brother was watching.



Malcolm listening as SEVERAL WITNESSES simultaneously describe the 
attack. A small angry CROWD has gathered. The most animated one is 
BENJAMIN, a very dark young black teenager, we will soon meet him 
later.


		The cop says, "Move on."


		The Brother didn't scatter fast enough for the 
ofay.




		Crack. He bled like a stuck hog.


		Watcha gonna do?


			(deprecatingly) 
He'll rap a little. He's a Muslim. And make a 
speech.


		Muslims talk a good game, but they never do 
nothing, unless somebody bothers Muslims.

Malcolm's face goes taut. He nods sharply at Sidney, as Benjamin 
watches them both.


		I demand to see Brother Johnson.



Malcolm facing a DESK SERGEANT, TWO UNIFORMED COPS and a PLAINCLOTHESMAN
off to one side.


		Who the hell are you?


		I'm from Muslim Temple 7.


		Never heard of you.


		Where is he?

	The police respond with a squeeze play intended to intimidate Malcolm:


		Nobody here by that name.


		What's your name, feller?

	He feels the power play and stiffens in resistance.


		I'm Minister Malcolm X. Two witnesses saw him 
brought in. He was not brought out.


		You heard the Sergeant. Outside.

	Malcolm stands his ground coolly.


		Take a look out that window. I intend to see 
Brother Johnson.

	The cops eye each other. Plainclothes walks to the window. 

143	EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE - LATE P.M.

	Across from the station is a phalanx of some FIFTY MEN of the Fruit 
of Islam. All are dressed in dark suits with white shirts. They stand 
in military formation: eyes forward, every face burning. People from 
the neighborhood have formed a crowd behind and around them. WE MAKE 
OUT Benjamin among the crowd. 

143A	INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT


		Who the hell are they?


		Brothers of Brother Johnson.


		Eddie, let's see that blotter.



	As the cops examine the police blotter.


		Yeah. We got a Muslim. The relief must of put it 
down.


		But you can't see him. You ain't his lawyer.


		No lawyer, no see.


		Until I'm satisfied Brother Johnson is 
receiving proper medical attention, no one will 
move.

	Cops eye each other. Plainclothes nods slightly, he has to give in, 
Malcolm is not playing.



	The back of Malcolm's head, as he examines Brother Johnson. As he comes 
up OUT OF FRAME, WE SEE that Johnson has been badly beaten.


			(shaking) 
Only a pig could do a thing like that.


		Watch your tongue, boy.


		Don't you call me boy, you pig. Letting a man 
bleed like that.

	Sergeant puts a restraining hand on Plainclothes.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
That man belongs in a hospital. Get an ambulance. 
Now! 

145 	EXT. THE STREET - LATER (DARKER)

	As Johnson's body, on a stretcher, is hurried into an ambulance. The 
crowd has grown in proportions. There are ad libs: "Goddam pigs," "Damn 
police brutality," "Least they got him out of the meat house."

	Malcolm with the Sergeant and a LIEUTENANT, as the ambulance pulls away.


		All right, break it up. You got what you wanted.


		I'm not satisfied.

	Malcolm starts walking down the center of the street, after the 
ambulance.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
To the hospital.

	The Fruit of Islam fall in behind him, marching slowly. It takes on the 
start of a march as the neighborhood people fall in behind them. People 
(especially kids) race with them on the street and on the sidewalk.



	Benjamin fights his way through the crowd trying to walk beside Malcolm, 
the Brothers in the Fruit stop him and Benjamin drops back.



 	Now the march has taken over the broad avenue. COPS are forced to 
redirect traffic, holding up crosstown cars as the group walks solemnly 
by. The people walking behind have swelled it to a huge demonstration. 
Their faces reflect their anger and their satisfaction that, for once, 
something is being done about what has happened.



	LONG SHOT SHOWS the Muslim men in perfect order, calm with their arms 
folded across their chests, waiting. Their eyes are on Malcolm as he 
walks toward the hospital entrance. 

	SHOTS

--of the growing crowd.

--of the nervous cops, including some big brass.

	--of kids watching from a rooftop.

--of Benjamin trying to emulate the Fruit of Islam. 

148	EXT. OUTSIDE HARLEM HOSPITAL - NIGHT 

Malcolm is standing in front of the Fruit of Islam men, as HIGHRANKING 
POLICE OFFICER GREEN comes over.


		All right, that's enough. I want these people 
moved out of here.


		They're all disciplined men. They're doing 
nothing except waiting.



	The unruly crowd behind the Fruit of Islam. They are restive, milling, 
ugly.


		What about them?


		That's your headache, Captain. And if he dies, 
I pity you.




		He'll live. He's getting the best care we can 
give.


		Thank you, Doctor.


		I had to put a plate in his head.


			(to Captain) 
You bastards.


		All right, okay. Now disperse this mob.



It's clear the decision is in one man's hands, Malcolm's. 

	CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM 

He makes a gesture with his hand, the Fruit of Islam disperse.

	ANGLE. People moving away, going home. Only one person remains from the 
Fruit of Islam and the crowd, it's Benjamin.




		That's too much power for one man to have.



	Everyone is in a somber mood over the evening's events. 

	ANGLE - TABLE 

Malcolm sits with Brothers Earl and Sidney.


		Brother Minister, we need to strike back.


		Put fear into those devils.


		I want to also, but until we are instructed by 
the Messenger to do so, we will just wait and 
pray.


		I'm tired of praying.


		That's enough, Brother Earl.



	Benjamin comes into the cafeteria and everyone looks at him. He sees 
Malcolm sitting and moves toward his table.



Brothers Sidney and Earl get up to intercept him but Malcolm waves him 
through. Benjamin stands.


		Sit down, son.

	Malcolm pours some cream into his cup of black coffee, then also some 
white sugar.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
There is only one thing I like integrated. My 
coffee.

	Benjamin laughs.

MALCOLM (contd) 
What can I do for you?


		Mr. X, I was out there tonight. I saw what you 
did. I want to be a Muslim. I ain't never seen 
a Negro stand up to the police like that.



	They exchange dubious looks.


		Do you know what it means to be a true Muslim?

	Benjamin hesitates.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Do you?


		Not exactly, but I want to be one, like you.


		I admire your enthusiasm but you should never 
join any organization without first checking it 
out thoroughly.

	Benjamin is crushed and he starts to get up.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
We need more young warriors like yourself, 
stick around and we shall see if your heart is 
true.


		Mr. X, I won't make you out a liar.





	MALCOLM X WINS $70,000 JUDGMENT FOR BEATEN NEGRO 

An AIDE of Elijah puts down the newspaper and shakes Malcolm's hand.


		The Honorable Elijah Muhammad would like to see 
you now.



	Elijah is sweeping the floor with a plain hand broom. Malcolm enters 
the room, is surprised and waits at the door. The two are alone 
together.


		If I surprise you, let me explain. Menial work 
teaches us humility.


		Let me do it then.


		No, each of us must relearn that work is the 
only worthwhile thing. Allah has given you a 
great gift. Use it wisely, never forgetting 
that we are nothing, while He is all.


		Allah Akbar.

	The sweeping done, they stand together near a table at a window.


		Tonight I shall introduce you as my National 
Representative. It will be a difficult task. 
Your assignment is to build temples all over 
this nation. More work than you have ever done 
in your life and you will be in the public eye. 
My son, beware of those cameras, they are just 
as bad as a narcotic.

ANGLE - AIDES and OTHERS come into the room now. They are listening.

ELIJAH (contd) 
Yes, the white devil will watch your every 
step. Even your own Brothers will become 
jealous, and hostile, go slowly. So I offer you 
a parable -- regarding your work.

	Elijah picks up a glass and sets it before Malcolm.

				ELIJAH (contd) 
Here is a glass, dirty and its water foul. If 
you offer it to the people and they have no 
choice, they must drink out of it. But if you 
present them with this glass--

	He is holding a clean glass, with clear water in it.

				ELIJAH (contd) 
--and let them make their decision, they will 
choose the pure vessel. Islam is the only 
religion which addresses the needs and problems 
of the so-called Negro, especially in the 
ghettos -- Islam is the only way out from drugs, 
crime, unemployment, prostitution, alcohol, 
gambling, fornication and adultery.

	Elijah holds up the clear glass.


		This sweet, gentle man gave me the truth from 
his own mouth. And I adored him, in the sense 
of the Latin root of the word. Adorare, to 
worship and to fear. He was the first man I 
ever feared -- not fear such as the one has of 
a gun but the fear one has of the power of the 
sun, I pledged myself to him, even if it cost 
me my life.



	Betty is administering to a PATIENT, as a phone is heard ringing. It's 
answered. ANOTHER NURSE motions Betty to the phone. She finishes with 
her patient and goes quickly.


		Hello.


		Sister Betty?


		Yes.




		I'm in Detroit.


		I know.


		At a gas station. 
(a beat) 
Will you marry me?


		Yes.


		Did you hear what I said?


		Yes I did. Did you hear my answer?


		I think so. Can you catch a plane?


		Yes. Did you eat?


		I love you.



	Betty and Malcolm sit on the floor in the dimlit room, very close.


		It won't be easy.


		Just hold me.


		It will be rough.


		Hush your mouth.


		I'll be away a lot.


		You're with me even when you're away.

	He embraces her. Then Betty laughs.

				BETTY (contd) 
I never told you, but when I first saw you on 
the podium, cleaning your glasses, I felt sorry 
for you. Nobody as young as you should be that 
serious. But I don't think that anymore.


		What do you think?


		The simplest thing in the world: I want to have 
a lot of babies with you. Dear Heart, I love 
you.

Full embrace.

				BEMBRY'S VOICE 
		We're waiting on you folks. You trying to starve 
us?



	Malcolm has just cut the cake and handed a slice to Betty. Amid 
laughter and great warmth, Sidney unfurls the front page of the 
_Messenger_, the Muslim newspaper. Headline reads: "MALCOLM X WEDS 
BETTY SAUNDERS." Betty kisses her husband and Bembry, Lorraine, Earl, 
Sidney, Peter and VARIOUS BROTHERS AND SISTERS applaud.

	We notice the subtle change in the apartment: it is more comfortable; 
there is even evidence of some small luxury: a TV set, a new settee, 
etc.

156	EXT. RALLY - HARLEM - DAY 

Malcolm is speaking to a GOOD SIZED AUDIENCE:


		I must emphasize at the outstart, that the 
Honorable Elijah Muhammad is not a politician, 
so I'm not here this afternoon as a Republican, 
nor a Democrat, not as a Mason nor an Elk, not 
as a Christian nor a Jew, not as a Catholic nor 
a Protestant, not as a Baptist nor a Methodist, 
not even as an American. For if I was an 
American the problem that confronts our people 
today would not exist. So I stand here as what 
I was when I was born: A BLACK MAN!



				MALCOLM (contd) 
Before there were any such things as Democrats 
or Republicans, we were black. Before there 
were any such things as Masons or Elks, we
were black. Before there were any such things 
as Jews or Christians, we were black people. In 
fact long before there was ever any such place 
as America, we were black people... And after 
America has long passed from the scene there 
will still be BLACK PEOPLE.



	He is neatly dressed in white shirt, jacket and tie, a fine young 
Muslim.


		Take your time.



	The Honorable Elijah Muhammad sits on the stage to the right of Malcolm.
This is a larger audience.


		What kind of black people does the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad speak for? Black people who are 
jobless... the black masses who are poor, 
hungry, and angry, the black masses who are 
dissatisfied with the slums and ghettos in 
which we have been forced to live... the black 
masses who are tired of listening to the 
promises of white politicians to correct the 
miserable living conditions that exist in our 
community... the black masses that are sick of 
the inhuman acts of bestial brutality practiced 
by these semi-savage white policemen that 
patrol our community, like the occupation 
forces of a conquering enemy army... the black 
masses who are fed up with the anemic, Uncle 
Tom leadership set up by the white man to act 
as a spokesman for our people and to KEEP US 
		SATISFIED AND PACIFIED WITH NOTHING!






		If the black man cannot go back to his own 
people and his own land, Elijah Muhammad is 
asking that a part of the United States be 
separated and given to the Muslims so they can 
live separately.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is the only man 
the white people can deal with in the solving 
of problems of the so-called Negro...



MALCOLM (contd) 
...as Elijah Muhammad knows his problems. 

158 	INT. BETTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 

A modest room. She is rocking a cradle with her foot as she writes: 

				BETTY'S VOICE 
		Attallah is fine. Our firstborn is an angel and 
a beauty. And misses you as I do. But the news 
that you've dedicated four new temples is 
almost as good as having you with us.



Malcolm sits in front of a television screen and watches the evening 
news. The following speech will be INTERCUT with 

	A SERIES OF OLD NEWSREEL FOOTAGE - BLACK & WHITE 

(newsclips from Birmingham, Selma, Mississippi, and elsewhere): 

158B	--POLICE using dogs against DEMONSTRATORS. 

158C	--The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King marching. 

158D	--Cattle prods used against MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN. 

158E	--The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King singing "We Shall Overcome."



158G	--The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King leading a crowd in prayer.



158I	--The smoldering ruins of Birmingham's 16th St. Baptist church.



		The white people who are guilty of white 
supremacy try and hide their own guilt by 
accusing the Honorable Elijah Muhammad of 
teaching black supremacy when he tries to 
uplift the mentality, the social, and economic 
condition of black people in this country. And 
the Jews, who have been guilty of exploiting 
the black people economically, civilly, and 
otherwise, hide their guilt by accusing the 
Honorable Elijah Muhammad of being anti-Semitic 
simply because he teaches our people to go into 
business for ourselves and trying to take over 
the economic leadership in our own community. 
The black people in this country have been the 
victims of violence at the hands of the white 
man for 400 years, and following the ignorant 
Negro preachers, we have thought that it was 
God-like to turn the other cheek to the brute 
that was brutalizing us. 100 years ago they 
use to put on a white sheet and use a 
bloodhound against Negroes. Today they've taken
off sheets and put on police uniforms, they've 
traded in the bloodhounds for police dogs. And 
just as Uncle Tom back during slavery used to 
keep the Negroes from resisting the bloodhounds 
or resisting the Ku Klux Klan by telling them 
to love their enemy or pray for those who use 
them as spitefully today. The Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad is showing black people that just as 
the white man and every other person on this 
earth has God given rights, natural rights, 
civil rights, and any other kind of rights that 
you can think of when it comes to defending 
himself.



A-C	INT. TV STUDIO 

	CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM'S FACE 

With a studio mike around his neck, he's on a panel show. 

	ANGLE - MODERATOR


		Mr. X, before we start our discussion tonight 
-- The Black Muslims: Hate Mongers -- would you 
mind explaining for us the meaning of your 
name, which is the letter X.



Opposing Malcolm is DR. PAYSON, a NAACP-type NEGRO. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM


		Yes sir. As you know, during slavery time, the 
slavemasters named most of the so-called 
Negroes in America after themselves. Mr. Elijah 
Muhammad teaches us once you come into the 
knowledge of Islam, you replace your slave name 
with an X. Since we've been disconnected, cut 
off from our Eastern culture for so long that 
we don't know the names we originally had, we 
will use X until we get back to the East.




		Thank you. Now Dr. Payson.




		Mr. X is a demagogue. He has no place to go, so 
he exaggerates. He's a disservice to every good 
law-abiding Negro in the country. Can I ask you 
a question?




		Please, go ahead.


		Mr. Malcolm X, why do you teach black 
supremacy? Why do you teach hate?




		For the white man to ask the black man if he 
hates him is just like the rapist asking the 
raped, or the wolf asking the sheep, "Do you 
hate me!" The white man is in no moral position 
to accuse anyone of hate.




		Certainly, Mr. X, you must admit there has been 
progress.


		I'll talk about "progress" in a minute, but let 
me finish with my brother.

Malcolm gestures to the Negro panelist.  The BLACK MEMBERS of the TV 
audience are lapping it up. Betty and Earl also sit in the TV studio 
audience.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Stop me if I'm wrong. I "polarize the community." 
I "erroneously appraise the racial picture."


		You put it very well.


		You left one phrase out. Another educated 
Kneegrew said to me and I quote: "Brother 
Malcolm oversimplifies the dynamic interstices 
of the Negro subculture." Would you agree?


		Entirely.




		Well, I have this to say. Do you know what a 
Negro with a B.A., an M.A. and a Ph.D. is 
called -- by the white man? I'll tell you. He's 
called a nigger.

	There is some blanching and guffawing from the audience. The moderator 
is totally embarrassed, Betty roars.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
And I'm not finished. To understand this man--

	He points a sharp finger at the Negro Panelist.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
--you must know that historically there are two 
kinds of slaves. House Negroes and Field 
Negroes. The house Negro lived in the big 
house; he dressed pretty good; he ate pretty 
good and he loved the master. Yeah, he loved 
him more than the master loved himself. If the 
master's house caught fire, he'd be the first 
to put the blaze out. If the master got sick, 
he'd say: "What's a matter, boss; we sick?" 
WE sick! If someone said to him, "Let's run 
away and escape. Let's separate." He'd say, 
"Man, are you crazy? What's better than what I 
got here?" That was the House Negro. In those 
days he was called the House Nigger. Well, 
that's what we call them today because we still 
got a lot of House Niggers running around.

	There is applause from the blacks in the audience. Moderator tries to 
regain control.





He is enjoying this display by his prize student, the CAMERA PANS to a 
CLOSE SHOT of BEMBRY and the same cannot be said.




		I think, perhaps, Dr. Payson has something to--


		Don't you want to hear about the Field Nigger?


		Let him finish.


		Thank you. Now the Negro in the field caught 
hell all day long. He was beaten by the master; 
he lived in a shack, wore castoff clothes and 
hated his master. If the house caught fire, 
he'd pray for a wind. If the master got sick, 
he'd pray that he'd die. And if you said to 
him, "Let's go, let's separate", he'd yell, 
"Yeah, man, any place is better than this." 
You've got a lot of Field Negroes in America 
today. I'm one.


		Tell it.


		--there's another one. The majority of black 
Americans today are Field Negroes. They don't 
talk about OUR progress, about OUR government, 
OUR navy, OUR astronauts. Hell, they won't 
even let you near the plant.



Bembry turns off the TV set and he commences to plant the seeds of 
"betrayal."




		Your holy apostle, dear Messenger, I am your 
true servant and the brothers asked me to tell 
you Malcolm is getting too much press. The 
brothers think he thinks _he_ is the Nation of 
Islam, that he has aspirations to lead the 
Nation. It was you who made Malcolm the man he
is. You lifted him out of the darkness.




		Go and tell the brothers what Brother Minister 
is doing, has done, has been of great benefit 
to the Nation.




		Great benefit for himself. 

159G	BRIEF MONTAGE. THE RISE OF MALCOLM X



Malcolm is walking the streets of Harlem like he is campaigning for 
office. He has Brothers Sidney, Earl, and Benjamin at his side, a CROWD 
follows him. Malcolm sees a WINO.


		Brother Man, put that bottle down, take that 
poison away from your lips. That's what the 
devil wants you to do, stay high, out of your 
natural mind. I know, I've been there.

	The wino looks at Malcolm and continues to drink his wine.


armed with microphones. He walks; they follow.


to the meetings, etc.



	Malcolm sits with Benjamin.


		It's time you received your X. But first you 
must copy this letter, exactly as I give it to 
you; down to the dotted "i's," crossed "t's," 
everything. And you must go on a fast, just 
water and juices, that's it.



	He takes the letter from Malcolm and looks at it.


		I'll have it tomorrow.


		Brother Benjamin, do not rush, it has to be 
exact.

	--Benjamin goes off in a corner and very quickly copies the letter, 
he's so anxious.

	--Benjamin hands Malcolm his letter, Malcolm shakes his head and hands 
it back, it's not exact.



	Malcolm is talking to a group of PEOPLE who are having a rent strike.


		When you live in a poor neighborhood, you're 
living in an area where you have poor schools.



	Malcolm hands him back his letter again. The fast is getting to 
Benjamin.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
When you have poor schools you have poor 
teachers. When you have poor teachers, you get 
a poor education.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
Poor education, you only work on poor paying 
jobs and that enables you to live again in a 
poor neighborhood.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
So it's a very vicious cycle. We've got to 
break it.



	Benjamin weakly walks toward Malcolm and gives him his letter, which he 
takes. The fast is wearing him out. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Malcolm is inspecting it. 

	CLOSE - BENJAMIN 

His face is filled with apprehension. 

	ANGLE - MALCOLM AND BENJAMIN


		You are now Benjamin 2X.


		All praises are due to Allah. Thank you, 
Brother Minister.


		Come, sit with us.



Benjamin 2X sits with Malcolm and Brothers Earl and Sidney.


		We are now sitting with Brother Benjamin 2X.


		Allah Akbar.


		You will be good.


		Brother Minister, can I have something to eat?

	Everyone laughs.


		Let's get this man some food.



	A CROWD OF STUDENTS outside the Law School. The setting is the same as 
the last time we saw Malcolm and Shorty here, except now the students 
part for him. Malcolm walks slowly toward the entrance, looking up at 
the Latin inscription of the building when he is stopped by a WHITE 
	COED.


		Mr. X, I've read some of your speeches and I 
honestly believe a lot of what you say has 
truth to it. I have a good heart. I'm a good 
person despite my whiteness. What can the good 
white people like myself, who are not 
prejudiced, or racist, what can we do to help 
the cause?



He stares at her.


		Nothing!



She is absolutely crushed and runs away in tears. 

161 	INT. HARVARD LAW SCHOOL - DAY 

Speaking to a packed STUDENT AUDIENCE. 

				MALCOLM 
		...My high school was the black ghetto of 
Roxbury. My college was the streets of Harlem, 
and I took my masters in prison. If you look 
out the window--

161A 	SHOT MALCOLM'S OLD GANG HANGOUT


		--you can see my burglary hangout. I lived 
like an animal. Had it not been for the 
Honorable Elijah Muhammad I would surely be in 
an insane asylum or dead.

	ANGLE - The audience carefully listening.


		Mr. Muhammad is trying to get us on God's side, 
so God will be on our side to help us fight our 
battles. When Negroes stop getting drunk, stop 
being addicted to drugs, stop fornicating and
committing adultery. When we get off the 
welfare, then we'll be MEN. Earn what you need 
for your family, then your family respects you. 
They'll be proud to say "That's my father." 
She's proud to say "That's my husband..." 
Father means you're taking care of those 
children. Just 'cause you made them that don't 
mean you're a father. Anybody can make a baby, 
but anybody can't take care of them. Anyone can 
go and get a woman but anybody can't take care 
of a woman. This is the type of teaching that 
the honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us so we 
can build the moral fiber of our people.



	Beginning to scribble furiously.


		I can see the gentlemen of the press, also the 
FBI and CIA. are with us. Get it straight 'cuz 
if I said, "Mary had a little lamb," they'd 
write Malcolm X lampoons poor Mary.

	Loud laughter from the audience. But this response is overwhelmed by 
the response of ANOTHER, LARGER AUDIENCE.



Malcolm is talking before an all-black audience. It is the largest 
rally yet; the hall is packed to the rafters.


		We have built temples in Boston, in Detroit, in 
Atlanta, Philadelphia, Washington -- 100 
temples in fifty states. From a handful we 
have grown to scores of thousands.



HAWKERS selling _The Messenger_, faces of Fruit of Islam near the 
podium; Lorraine, Sidney, Earl, Benjamin, and Bembry. For the first 
time a new note is seen in Bembry's face: reserve bordering on 
resentment. When others around him cheer Malcolm, Bembry is cool. 
Sidney notices this from his father, but makes no comment.

				MALCOLM/HIS VOICE 
		The Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us that 
God is now about to establish a kingdom on this 
earth based on brotherhood and 

		[...]

against peace, his history on this earth has 
proved that. Nowhere in history has he been 
brotherly toward anyone. The only time he has 
been brotherly toward you is when he can use 
you, when he can exploit you, when he can 
oppress you, when you will submit to him. And 
since his own history makes him unqualified to 
be an inhabitant or a citizen in a kingdom of 
brotherhood, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad 
teaches us that God is about to eliminate that 
particular race from this earth. So since they 
are due for elimination, we don't want to be 
with them.





				MALCOLM (contd) 
If the so-called Negro were American citizens 
we wouldn't have a race problem. If the 
Emancipation Proclamation was authentic, you 
wouldn't have a race problem. If the 13th, 
14th, and 15th amendments to the Constitution 
was authentic, you wouldn't have a race 
problem. If the Supreme Court desegregation 
decision was authentic, you wouldn't have a 
race problem. All of this is hypocrisy. These 
Negro leaders have been telling the white man 
everything is all right, everything is under 
control. And they've been telling the white man 
that Mr. Muhammad is wrong, don't listen to 
him. But everything Mr. Muhammad has been 
saying is going to come to pass is now coming 
to pass and now the Negro leaders are standing 
up saying that we are about to have a racial 
explosion. We're going to have a racial 
explosion and that's more dangerous than an 
atomic explosion.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
It's going to explode because black people are 
dissatisfied. They're dissatisfied now not only 
with the white man, but with these Negroes who 
have been sitting around here posing as leaders 
and spokesmen for black people. Anytime you put 
too many sparks around a powder keg, the thing 
is going to explode and if the thing that 
explodes is still inside the house, then the 
house will be destroyed. So the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad is telling the white man get 
this powder keg out of your house, let the 
black people in this country separate from him 
while there's still time. And if the black man 
is allowed to separate and go on onto some land 
of his own, where he can solve his problems, 
then there won't be any explosion. COMPLETE 
		SEPARATION IS THE ONLY SOLUTION TO THE BLACK 


	ANGLE - CROWD

	A wave of cheers as people explode.



	The rally is over. A small room packed with PEOPLE congratulating 
Malcolm, trying to touch him. He is the hero of the hour. Sidney, Earl, 
and Benjamin with him, enjoying the accolades and trying to help 
Malcolm make his way out. Bembry stands apart, removed and silent.


		Thank you, Brother; Sister, how are you?


		Please make way, please--

	ANGLE. A WELL-KNOWN PERSONALITY (DICK GREGORY) is at the door. He and 
Malcolm know each other well. Malcolm extends a palm, but Gregory 
doesn't slap it.


		Can I ask you something?


		Sure, man.


		Are you Elijah's pimp?


		What?


			(scornfully) 
"His greatest greatness."


		Say what you're saying.


		If you don't know, man, then I feel sorriest 
for you.



	Betty, pregnant with child, is in a chair -- a newspaper in her lap. 
Malcolm is in the other room, putting his last daughter to sleep. We 
hear him...




		Okay, last hug.

	As he enters, a smile on his face, but the concern of the evening 
clearly imprinted. He sits down heavily. Betty watches him carefully.


		Long day. Long night. Long year. Long ten years.

	He smiles. She doesn't.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
Why are you looking at me like that?


		Because you're in trouble.


		How do you know?

	She smiles.

				BETTY
		Dear heart, because I know you.

	A pause.

				MALCOLM 
		I don't want to bring my troubles home. You 
know that.


		I'm not made of glass.


		I just want to sit here and be still.

				BETTY
		We've never had a fight. Not a real one. But 
we're going to have one right now if you don't
talk about it.


		Talk about what?


		The talk is everywhere!


		There's always talk, always been talk, and 
always will be talk. Don't they say how I'm 
trying to take over the Nation, how I'm getting 
rich off the Nation?


		We'll get to that, too, but this isn't just 
talk any more.

	She picks up the newspaper and reads from it:

				BETTY (contd) 
"Los Angeles, UPI: Elijah Muhammad, 67-year-old 
leader of the Black Muslim Movement, today 
faced paternity suits from two former 
secretaries who charged he fathered their four 
children..."


		There are always slanders, always lies. You're 
reading the devil's lies. Can't you see they're 
trying to bring us down, bring down the 
Messenger.


		"Both women, in their 20's, charged they had 
had intimacies with Elijah Muhammad since 
		1957..."


		I was going to talk to Bembry about it tonight.


		To Bembry? Is Bembry your friend?


		Woman, have you lost your mind? What's the 
matter with you?

	Betty gets up, goes to him gently.


		No, what's the matter with you? Wake up! Are 
you so dedicated that you have blinded 
yourself? Are you so committed you cannot face 
the truth? Bembry is the editor of the 
newspaper you established. Ask him why your 
name hasn't been in "Muhammad Speaks" in over a 
year? Ask him why you rate front page in every 
paper in the country, but not a single sentence 
in your own.


			(rationalizing) 
I'm not interested in personal publicity. Our 
people know what I'm doing.


		Do you know what Bembry is doing? You're so 
blind, everyone can see this but you!!!


		Bembry saved my Life. The Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad saved my life.


		A long time ago. You've repaid them many times 
over. Ask them why they have new cars and 
houses full of new furniture.


		Is that what this is about? Material wealth?


		What do we have, Malcolm. A broken-down jalopy 
and the clothes on our backs. We don't even own 
our own home. What about our children? What 
about me? You don't even own life insurance.


		The Nation will provide for you and the 
children if anything happens to me.


		Will they? Are you sure? Are you sure or are 
you blind?

	She touches him very gently.

				BETTY (contd)
Dear heart, you have to help me. I'm raising 
our kids practically by myself, while you're 
running all over the world. You don't know how 
many times the girls ask me when is daddy 
coming home?


		What do you want me to do? Our people need me.


		We need you too!


		What do you want me to do?


		Open your eyes, you can face death 24 hours a 
day; but the possibility of betrayal never 
enters your mind. If you won't do that for 
yourself do it for us.



Malcolm knocks on the door of Evelyn Williams, one of the two 
secretaries/wives. She opens the door and has child in her arms.




		Her name is Eva Marie, she's 2 years old. 
Brother Minister, I did nothing wrong. I did 
nothing to be put in isolation. I believed in 
him. I believed in the Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad.



He cannot believe what he is hearing, but he must. The truth is before 
his eyes.


		Sister Evelyn, believe in Allah.







	Malcolm is sitting holding both of the children. Sister Lucille who is 
pregnant with 3rd child waddles across the room to sit down on the sofa 
with him. She picks up one of the kids from him.




		This is Saudi, she's 3 and you have Lisha, 
she's 2. Brother Minister the Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad is the father of my 3 children.

	She touches her pregnant stomach.

				SISTER LUCILLE (contd) 
Brother Minister he often talked about you. He 
loves you, loves you like his own son. Says you 
are the best, his greatest Minister but that 
someday you would leave him and turn against 
him.




		He told you that?


		Yes sir.


		Are you sure?


		Yes, I am, Brother Minister. All I want is 
support for my children. He should provide for 
his children. That's all I want.


		Allah will provide.



	CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM 

He has said everything on his mind and waits for Bembry's answer.




		What are you talking about -- "blackout"? Some 
of the Brothers are a little jealous. Maybe 
they think you been a little -- overpublicized. 
That's all. Forget it. It's nothing.

	Malcolm is listening closely. Bembry puts an arm around him, man-to-man.

				BEMBRY (contd) 
Now about our coming up in the world a little. 
You're not naive. You're a man of the world. 
The Movement's grown; we've grown with it. You 
know folks. They want their leaders to be 
prosperous. One hand washes the other.


			(quoting Bembry back to himself) 
"I'm telling you God's words, not to hustle."


		You want a new car? You want a new house? Is 
that it? It's the money, right?

	Malcolm has to control his rage.


		We tell the world we're moral leaders because 
we follow the personal example of the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad. It's hard to make a rooster 
stop crowing once the sun has risen. The sun is 
up.

	We hear rifle shots.

	DRUM CADENCE (IT WILL BE THROUGHOUT ENTIRE SCENE)

166	OMIT






	Malcolm, a last-minute replacement for the ailing Honorable Elijah 
Muhammad, speaks before a HUGE CROWD.


		And what do I say of this so-called national 
mourning! I say... the white man's acts are 
condemned, not only by our beliefs but by his 
own.




		Both his Bible and the Holy Koran say: "As you 
sow, so shall you reap." Both say: "Sow the 
wind, reap the whirl wind."



				MALCOLM (contd) 
In the soil of America the white man planted 
the seeds of hate. He allowed the weeds that 
sprang up to choke the life out of thousands 
of black men.



				MALCOLM (contd) 
Now they have strangled one of the gardeners. 
This is the justice of Allah. Wa-Salaam Alaikum.




		Alaikum Wa-Salaam.






		Minister X! Don't you have even a little bit of 
remorse... saddened by President Kennedy's 
assassination?




		Assassination might be too good a word, and 
might I add an Arabic word at that. This was a 
prime example of the devil's chickens coming 
home to roost. Being an old farm boy myself, 
chickens coming home to roost never did make 
me sad. It always made me glad.



On his desk is the black headlines: MALCOLM X CALLS ASSASSINATION 
"CHICKENS COMING HOME TO ROOST." Elijah's health is getting worse, his 
coughing is frequent.


		Did you see the papers today?


		Yes, sir, I did.


		That was a very bad statement. The country 
loved this man, and you have made it hard in 
general for Muslims.



He knows what is coming. 

	CLOSE - ELIJAH

				ELIJAH (contd) 
We must dissociate ourselves from your terrible 
blunder. I'll have to silence you for the next 
ninety days. You are not allowed to make any 
statements to the press nor are you to speak at 
any temples.



	He looks at Elijah, his leader, his friend, his father and speaks with 
total sincerity.


		I agree with you, sir. I submit 100 percent.



Malcolm turns around and leaves the room. 

	ANGLE - DOOR 

As the door is being closed, WE SEE Bembry kneeling before Elijah and 
kissing his hand. The door closes, the SCREEN IS BLACK. 

	FADE IN: 

170	OMIT





Sidney is playing on the floor with the kids. Betty scoops them up.


		C'mon girls, it's bedtime.

The phone rings. Malcolm answers it. From his expression we know it is 
a threat call. He hangs up. Betty leaves with the kids.


		Another one? 

				MALCOLM 
		How long has this been going on?


		All day since you and Betty left. Brother 
Minister, I have to level with you. They gave 
me a mission. But I couldn't do it. I love 
y'all.

				MALCOLM 
		What mission?

				SIDNEY 
		To wire your car so it would explode when you 
turned the ignition. The Ministers say you are 
spreading untruths about the Messenger. The 
Ministers say you are a great hypocrite, Judas, 
Benedict Arnold. The Ministers say your tongue 
should be cut out and delivered to the 
Messenger's doorstep.


		What does Sidney say?


		I'm with you, Brother Minister.


		No. You'll be marked for death.


		Let me die then.


		I won't let myself come between you and your 
father. Go home.


		You're my father.


		And don't come back.

	Sidney reluctantly leaves, walks out the door, past Betty. She looks at 
him, then Malcolm.



	Malcolm -- backed by Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X -- faces a roomful 
of SUPPORTERS and REPORTERS.


		Because 1964 threatens to be a very explosive 
year on the racial front, and because I myself 
intend to be very active in every phase of the 
American Negro struggle for HUMAN RIGHTS, I 
have called this press conference, this 
morning in order to clarify my own position in 
the struggle -- especially in regards to 
politics and nonviolence. In the past I thought 
the thoughts, spoke the words of the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad, that day is over. From now on 
I speak my own words, and think my own thoughts. 
Internal differences within the Nation of Islam 
forced me out of it. I did not leave of my own 
free will. But now that it has happened, I 
intend to make the most of it. Now that I have 
more independence of action, I intend to use a 
more flexible approach toward working with 
others to get a solution to this problem. I do 
not pretend to be a divine man, but I do 
believe in divine guidance, divine power, and 
in the fulfillment of divine prophecy. I am not 
educated, nor am I an expert in any particular 
field, but I am sincere, and my sincerity is my 
credentials. I'm not out to fight other Negro 
leaders or organizations. We must find a common 
solution, to a common problem. I am going to 
organize and head a new mosque in New York 
City, known as the Muslim Mosque, Inc. This 
gives us a religious base, and the spiritual 
force necessary to rid our people of the vices 
that destroy the moral fiber of our community. 
Our political philosophy will be black 
nationalism. Our economic and social philosophy 
will be black nationalism. The Muslim Mosque, 
Inc. will remain wide open for ideas and 
financial aid from all quarters. Whites can 
help us, but they can't join us. There can be 
no black-white unity until there is first some 
black unity.

A host of questions fired all at once: How many of Elijah's followers
will join you? etc, etc, etc.

	Malcolm calms them:

				MALCOLM (contd) 
There is one further preparation I need. It is 
a return to the source of our great religion. I 
will make a pilgrimage to Mecca.



	Malcolm, at the window, as his plane takes off. He is watching Betty 
and the children on the Visitors' Ramp. He sees her become a tiny 
figure, waving a vivid bandana.



	The plane is out of sight. Betty gathers up her children. As they leave 
she is subtly surrounded by the protecting BAND OF SUPPORTERS, led by 
Earl and Benjamin 2X.






		My darling Betty. Everywhere I go I am welcomed 
as the representative of our people.



	He watches as Malcolm walks between the two pyramids.

				MALCOLM'S VOICE (contd) 
Our fight is known and respected worldwide. 
Incidentally, there's a little white man who 
follows me wherever I go.



	On a camel as he rides toward the Sphinx.


		I wonder who he's working for? If I was a 
betting man, I'd say CIA. What's your guess?




		I arrived in Jedda, Saudi Arabia. I have never 
witnessed such sincere...



	Betty is reading Malcolm's letter to a LARGE AUDIENCE.

				BETTY (contd) 
...hospitality and true brotherhood as 
practiced here in the ancient home of Abraham, 
Mohammad and the great prophets of the 
Scriptures..."



	--Malcolm, wearing the garb of a pilgrim, walks with a VAST THRONG OF 
OTHERS, similarly clad, around the Great Temple. He wears two white 
towels, one over his loins, the other over his neck and shoulder, 
leaving the right arm and shoulder bare. He wears simple sandals. The 
other pilgrims are of various colors: from white, to yellow, to darkest 
black.




chicken and shaking it.


in the middle of the Great Mosque. He falls to his knees. WE SEE what 
he describes:


		Today, with thousands of others, I proclaimed 
God's greatness in the Holy City of Mecca. 
Wearing the Ihram garb I made my seven circuits 
around the Kaaba; I drank from the well of Zem 
Zem; I prayed to Allah from Mt. Ararat where 
the Ark landed. It was the only time in my life 
that I stood before the Creator of all and felt 
like a complete human being.



	Elijah and a GROUP OF BLACK MUSLIM LEADERS. Bembry among them, it looks 
like he is the number two man now that Malcolm has been jettisoned. The 
Messenger lies in bed, he is having a coughing fit, this is the worst 
condition he's been in. A DOCTOR orders everyone out the room.


		You may be shocked by these words, but I have 
eaten from the same plate, drunk from the same 
glass and prayed to the same God with fellow 
Muslims whose eyes were blue, whose hair was 
blond and whose skin was the whitest of whites. 
And we are brothers, truly; people of all 
colors and races believing in One God and one 
humanity. Once before, in prison, the truth 
came and blinded me. It has happened again...



	Betty is with Brothers Earl, Benjamin 2X, and the children. There are 
now four including another BABY - GAMILAH


		In the past, I have permitted myself to be used 
to make sweeping indictments of all white 
people, and these generalizations have caused 
injuries to some white folks who did not 
deserve them. Because of the spiritual rebirth 
which I was blessed to undergo as a result of 
my pilgrimage to the Holy City of Mecca, I no 
longer subscribe to sweeping indictments of 
one race. I intend to be careful not to 
sentence anyone who has not been proven guilty. 
I'm not a racist and do not subscribe to any of 
the tenets of racism. In all honesty and 
sincerity it can be stated that I wish nothing 
but freedom, justice and equality: life, 
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all 
people.




		My first concern, of course, is with the group 
to which I belong, the Afro-Americans, for we, 
more than any other, are deprived of these 
inalienable rights.




		I believe the true practice of Islam can remove 
the cancer of racism from the hearts and souls 
of white Americans.



	A TIGHT TWO-SHOT of Malcolm and Betty in an embrace. She breaks from 
him and whispers: "Go ahead. I can wait now."



	A large PRESS CONFERENCE: mikes of every network, every newspaper and 
wire service present. Malcolm sports a beard.


		Let's begin.


		Malcolm, you said on your trip abroad you 
sensed a feeling of great brotherhood.


		As I recall, I pointed out that while I was in 
Mecca making the pilgrimage, I spoke about the 
brotherhood that existed at all levels among 
all people, all colors who had accepted the 
religion of Islam. I pointed out that what it 
had done, Islam, for those people despite their 
complexion differences, that it would probably 
do America well to study the religion of Islam 
and perhaps it could drive some of the racism 
from this society. Muslims look upon themselves 
as human beings, as part of the human family 
and therefore look upon all other segments of 
the human family as part of that same family. 
Today my friends are black, brown, red, yellow 
and white.


		Malcolm, are you prepared to go to the United 
Nations at this point and ask that charges be 
brought against the United States for its 
treatment of the American Negroes?


		Oh yes.

The AUDIENCE applauds.

				MALCOLM (contd) 
The audience will have to be quiet. Yes, as I 
pointed out that during my trip that nations, 
African nations, Asian, Latin nations look very 
hypocritical when they stand up in the UN 
condemning South Africa and saying nothing 
about the racist practices that are manifested 
everyday against Negroes in this society. I 
would be not a man if I didn't do so. I 
wouldn't be a man.


		Are you prepared to work with some of the 
leaders of some of the other civil rights
organizations?


		Certainly, we will work with any groups, 
organizations or leaders in any way, as long as 
it's genuinely designed to get results.


		Does the new beard have any religious 
significance?


		No, not particularly. But I do think that you 
will And black people in America, as they 
strive to throw off the shackles of mental 
colonialism, will also probably reflect an 
effort to throw off the shackles of cultural 
colonialism. And then they'll begin to reflect 
desires of their own with standards of their 
own.


		One of your more controversial remarks was a 
call for black people to get rifles and form 
rifle clubs sometime back. Do you still favor 
that for self-defense?


		I don't see why that should be controversial. I 
think that if white people found themselves 
victim of the same kind of brutality that black 
people in this country face, and they saw that 
the government was either unwilling or unable 
to protect them, that the intelligence on the 
part of the whites would make them get some 
rifles and protect themselves.


		What about the guns, Malcolm?


		Has the white man changed since I went away? 
Have you put up your guns? The day you stop 
being violent against my people will be the 
day I tell folks to put away their guns.


		Then you're still an extremist?




		Git your hand out of my pocket!

Everyone turns around to the back to see what the commotion is about. 
The man who yelled out leaves quickly, we will see him later on, very 
soon.



Malcolm looks out the living room window, he has a rifle in hand. 
(NOTE: This is the same pose as the famous photograph of him.) He 
doesn't see anyone and closes the curtain. The phone rings.



Malcolm picks up the receiver.


		You're one dead nigger.



Betty has picked up also and she's listening.


		You're days on this earth are numbered, brother.



 	CLICK!

He hangs up.



	Malcolm enters the room and gets into the bed with Betty, he puts his 
ear down on his wife's pregnant stomach.

She kisses him.


		Get some sleep.


		You have to sleep for three.

	Malcolm pulls Betty closer to him.


		I'm sorry. I haven't been the best husband or 
father.


		Shhh!


		Families shouldn't be separated. I'll never 
make another long trip without you and the kids. 
We'll all be together.


		Dear heart, I love you.


		We had the best organization that black people 
ever had and niggers ruined it.



	It is a cold winter night. A Molotov cocktail is lit and hurled through 
the front picture glass window.



	One of the children screams.





	Malcolm grabs his pistol and quickly throws a coat over Betty. She is 
half-asleep, frightened, trembling and disoriented.


		Walk out the back, dear. Hurry.

	Betty goes. Malcolm runs back for the children.

	ANGLE. He reassuringly leads the four children, in their pajamas, 
through the smoke-filled house.


		There's nothing to be afraid of. It might be a 
little cold. Hang on. We'll be fine.



	WE CUT BACK TO Earl Little getting his family out of the burning house 
in Lansing, Michigan. It should be the same exact scene we saw before 
earlier in the film.


		Everybody out. OUT! OUT! Get the kids.





	Neighbors' lights have gone on. There are shouts: "What is it?" "Fire!"
"Bring those children in here."


		Call the Fire Department.



187	EXT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT (LATER)

	A hose is playing on the fire. Police cars have arrived. There are TWO 
REPORTERS with the COPS. Malcolm faces them furiously.


		And the fire hit the window and it woke up my 
second oldest baby, but the fire burned on the 
outside of the house. It could have fallen on 
six-, four-, or two-year-old girls. And I'm 
going to tell you, if it had done it, I'd've 
taken my rifle and gone after anybody in sight.


		Are the Muslims behind this?


		It was bombed by the Black Muslim movement upon 
the orders of Elijah Muhammad.


		Do you know what Muslim headquarters is saying?


			(with total contempt) 
I can imagine. I did it myself. For the 
publicity.



	Bembry is being interviewed by a reporter.


		We feel this is a publicity stunt on the part 
of Malcolm X. We hope this isn't a case of "if 
he can't keep the house, we won't get it 
either."



	A car comes roaring down the street with rifles sticking out the 
windows, and pulls right up in front of Malcolm's house. 

	ANGLE - HOUSE 

Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X run out of the car up to Malcolm.


		We called your house, operator said you had 
requested that your phone be turned off.


		Give us the command, Malcolm.


		I don't care about myself, my wife and four 
children were sleeping in their beds, they 
have nothing to do with this.


		Let's get out of this cold.

	Brothers Earl and Benjamin take off their coats and put it over Malcolm 
and lead him to a police car.



	FIVE BLACK MEN sit around a table. They do not speak. They are Thomas 
Hayer, Ben Thomas, Leon Davis, William X and Wilbur Kinley. All are 
Muslims, all are the ASSASSINS. 

	CLOSE - 12-GAUGE SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN ON TABLE 

	CLOSE - 9MM GERMAN LUGER ON TABLE 

	CLOSE - .45 AUTOMATIC

	ANGLE - THOMAS HAYER

	He puts a roll of exposed 35mm film into a sock. 

	ANGLE - TABLE


		Allah Akbar.



187E 	INT. NY HILTON 

	ANGLE - LOBBY

 	Malcolm is checking in when he is approached by a young WHITE COED.


		Mr. X. I have a good heart. I'm a good person 
despite my whiteness. What can the good white 
people like myself who are not prejudiced do to 
help the cause of the Negro?



	He looks at her. He thinks. He speaks.


		Let sincere white individuals find other white 
people who feel as they do and teach 
non-violence to those whites who think and act 
so racist.



 				COED
 		I will, Mr. X, I will.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM


		Let's all pray without ceasing. May Allah bless 
you.



	Malcolm lies on his bed, and for the first time WE SEE the strain in 
his face, it has begun to take its toll, he's a haunted man. A doomed 
man.



Malcolm dials the phone.


		Brother Earl.

187G	INT. HOTEL THERESA - NIGHT


		Malcolm, where are you? We've been calling all 
over the city.

	INTERCUT between Malcolm and Brother Earl.


		I'm gonna try and get some work done tonight.


		Let some of us come down there.


		No, that won't be necessary. I'll be all right.


		I wish you'd listen to us. What about the 
meeting tomorrow? We need to frisk people.


		I don't want folks to be searched, it makes 
people uncomfortable. If I can't be safe among 
my own kind, where can I be? Allah will protect 
me.

	There is silence on the other end.





	The five assassins are casing ballroom. They check the different 
entrances, the exits, the bathrooms, staircases while the jam packed 
crowd continues to dance the night away.



	Betty is putting her four daughters to sleep when the phone rings. She 
picks it up.


		That red nigger of yours is dead and so are 
your bastard children.



	Betty hangs up the phone and it rings again.


		Stop calling us. Leave us alone. Leave us alone. 
I'll kill you. I'll kill you.




		Betty it's me. It's me.

	INTERCUT between between Malcolm and Betty.


		Malcolm, they keep calling, threatening us. 
I'm going crazy, when is this going to stop?


		Don't answer the phone. It's all right. It's 
all right. Nothing is gonna happen to anybody.


		Dear heart, where are you?


		At the Hilton. The girls asleep?


		I just put them to bed. Can we come to the 
meeting tomorrow?


		I don't think that's such a good idea.



A blue 1968 Cadillac passes a sign that says Patterson, New Jersey.

	ANGLE - CAR 

The assassins are on their way to the Audubon Ballroom, Wilbur Kinley 
is behind the wheel, no one is talking. 

190 	EXT.STREET - DAY 

Betty is driving to the Audubon Ballroom, her four daughters are in the 
backseat making a racket. 

190A 	EXT. STREET - DAY

	Malcolm drives to the Audubon Ballroom.



	Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X along with some others are putting the 
folding chairs in place for the coming meeting. The audience has not 
started to come in yet.



The assassins are driving over the George Washington Bridge.



				KINLEY 
		Brothers, the time is fast approaching, it's 
the hour of the knife.



	CLOSE - BETTY 

Betty is trying to quiet down her daughters as she drives. 

194 	EXT. STREET - DAY



	Malcolm is in deep thought as he drives.



	Betty and her four kids walk into the ballroom and move down the center 
aisle. One of the girls drops her black doll and a young man picks it 
up. The young man is Thomas Hayer, he gives it back to her.


		Say thank you.


		Thank you.


		You are welcome.

	ANGLE. The rest of the assassins come in and go to their positions 
along with the rest of the crowd, the place is starting to fill up.




		No sign of the minister yet.


		He'll be here like clockwork.



	Malcolm drives past the Audubon Ballroom, people are going in but no 
cops are present.



Malcolm drives by. 

	ANGLE - STREET 

Malcolm parks his car, it's four blocks away. He turns off the ignition 
and sits there. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

It's as if he's frozen in his car. 

	ANGLE - STREET

Malcolm finally gets out of the car, locks the door and walks a couple 
of steps, then stops. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Malcolm has stopped in his tracks, like some unseen force has overcome 
him which prevents him from moving. Malcolm is paralyzed.

	CLOSER - MALCOLM'S FACE 

His eyes are closed, and the street noise begins to build to a 
deafening _roar_. Then all of a sudden it stops. 

	ANGLE - OLD WOMAN


		Son, you all right?

	Malcolm opens his eyes, she has brought him out of it. He looks at her 
but doesn't answer.

				OLD WOMAN (contd) 
Are you okay?

	Malcolm looks at this old woman, who slightly resembles his own mother.


		Ma'am, I'm fine.


		Good. We need you. I recognize you, don't pay 
them folks no never mind, you keep on doing 
what you doing.


		May Allah bless you.


		I'll pray for you too, son. Jesus will protect 
you.

	She walks away, carrying her two shopping bags full of groceries.



 	Malcolm walks in. Present are Brothers Earl, Benjamin 2X and a 
secretary SISTER ROBIN.


		Is the program ready?


		No, Brother Minister.


 		Why not? You've had ample time, you and the 
sister.


		I apologize Brother Minister, we'll have it 
next week.

	He is pissed.


		Folks are sitting out there _today_, not next 
week, expecting to hear our program.


		Next week, Brother Minister.


		Has the Reverend called? Is he going to show?


		Reverend Chickenwing called last night and said 
he wouldn't be able to attend.


		So now we have no opening speaker? Why wasn't I 
informed last night?


		I called Sister Betty, she didn't tell you?


		Since when do you start telling Sister Betty my 
business? Since when? She has nothing to do 
with this. You tell me, not her, not anybody 
else.


		I assumed...


		What did I tell you about assuming?

	Malcolm starts pacing the room, nobody has ever seen him like this 
before.


		Benjamin, you better go out there and explain 
why the program isn't ready today.

	Benjamin 2X gets up to leave.


		Sister, please go with the brother.

	They both exit.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM AND EARL


		Brother Minister, what is wrong?


		The way I feel, I ought not to go out there 
today. In fact, I'm going to ease some of this 
tension by telling the black man not to fight 
himself -- that's all a part of the white man's 
big maneuver, to keep us fighting amongst 
ourselves, against each other. I'm not 
fighting anyone, that's not what we're here 
for.


		Let's cancel.


		Is my family here yet?


		Down front as always.



	A lone COP in uniform stands in the shadows with a walkie-talkie.



Malcolm is about to go on stage when he sees Sister Robin.


		You'll have to forgive me for raising my voice 
to you.


		Brother Minister, I understand.


			(to himself) 
I wonder if anybody understands.



	The place is filled. Betty and the girls sit in a boxed-off section 
near the platform. Malcolm's bodyguards stand on and around the stand. 
Benjamin 2X is finishing up his speech when Malcolm walks onto the 
stage and sits down.


		Make it plain.


		And now, without further remarks, I present to 
you one who is willing to put himself on the 
line for you--



	CLOSE - THOMAS HAYER

	CLOSE - WILBUR KINLEY 

	CLOSE - LEON DAVIS 

	CLOSE - BEN THOMAS 

	CLOSE - WILLIAM X 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM X 

	CLOSE - BENJAMIN 2X

				BENJAMIN 2X (contd) 
--a man who would give his life for you. I want 
you to hear, to listen, to understand one who 
is a Trojan for the black man.



	A roar greets Malcolm's intro. He shakes hands with Benjamin 2X, then 
steps toward the podium.



	He starts to rearrange his 3 x 5 index cards in his hands.


		Brothers and Sisters, Wa-Salaam Alaikum.


		Alaikum Wa-Salaam.



There is a commotion in the rear of the audience. 

				BENJAMIN THOMAS 
		Git your hand out of my pocket. 

The bodyguards move toward the rear. 

	CLOSE - MALCOLM


		Hold it, brothers. Don't get excited. Let's 
cool it--



	He stands up from the fourth row with 12-gauge sawed-off shotgun 
blasting.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

Throws up his hands, grabs his chest and is knocked backward. 

	SHOTS - PURE PANDEMONIUM 

People hit the floor, knock over chairs, stampede for the exits. 

	ANGLE - BACK OF AUDITORIUM 

Wilbur Kinley ignites a smoke bomb. 

	ANGLE - FIRST RUN 

Thomas Hayer and Leon Davis stand up, run toward the stage, and empty 
their .45's and Luger into the fallen body of Malcolm. 

	ANGLE - BETTY 

She is on the floor covering her children. 

	ANGLE - AISLE 

Hayer and Davis charge up the aisle toward the rear exit, shooting at 
the crowd.

	ANGLE - BODYGUARD

He stands in Hayer's way, Hayer fires, he turns, the bullet misses and 
the bodyguard gets off a shot which hits Hayer in the leg.



	He stumbles momentarily, then limps on.



	Hayer is running down the staircase when he is tripped, and goes flying 
through the air to the bottom of the landing. The crowd starts to beat 
the shit out of him, kicking him in the head, etc., they're about to 
tear him apart from limb to limb when a PATROLMAN enters with gun drawn.
He shoots gun into air and the crowd backs off and he takes custody of 
Hayer.



	One of Malcolm's bodyguards, BROTHER GENE, is over him, giving him 
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Brother Gene stops, Betty moves in and 
hugs her dying husband.


		Somebody call an ambulance. Somebody call an 
ambulance.



	THIRTY COPS walk in like it's a spring Sunday stroll in Central Park.

	CLOSE - MALCOLM 

His eyes are glazed over.


		They killed him. They killed him. 

200	SHOT - BROTHERS EARL AND BENJAMIN 2X SITTING ON STAGE 

200A	SHOT - MALCOLM IS RUSHED ON A STRETCHER TO HOSPITAL NEXT DOOR

	SHOT - HOSPITAL SPOKESPERSON 

				HOSPITAL SPOKESPERSON 
		The person you know as Malcolm is no more.





	OSSIE DAVIS speaking behind the above:


		Here at this final hour, in this quiet place, 
Harlem has come to bid farewell to one of its 
brightest hopes, extinguished now and gone from 
us forever.


waiting to see Malcolm's body, where it lies before burial.

				OSSIE DAVIS'S VOICE: (contd) 
For Harlem is where he worked, and where he 
struggled and fought. His home of homes, where 
his heart was and where his people are. And it 
is therefore most fitting that we meet once 
again in Harlem to share these last moments 
with him. For Harlem has ever been gracious to 
those who loved her, have fought for her and 
defended her honor even to death. It is not in 
the memory of man that this beleaguered, 
unfortunate but nonetheless proud community has 
found a braver, more gallant young champion 
than this Afro-American who lies before us 
unconquered still. Many will ask what Harlem 
finds to honor in this stormy, controversial 
and bold young captain and we will smile and we 
will answer and say unto them:



	Ordinary PEOPLE in ordinary pursuits of life, BLACK PEOPLE still 
struggling to stay afloat in a racist WHITE AMERICA that does not have 
their best interests at hand -- 8 years of Reagan and now at least 4 
years of Bush.

				OSSIE DAVIS'S VOICE (contd) 
Did you ever talk to Brother Malcolm? Did you 
have him smile at you? Did you ever listen to 
him? Did he ever really do a mean thing? Was he 
ever associated with violence or any public 
disturbance?






				OSSIE DAVIS'S VOICE (contd) 
For if you did, you would know him and if you 
knew him, you would know why we must honor him.



				OSSIE DAVIS'S VOICE (contd) 
Malcolm was our manhood, our living black 
manhood. That was his meaning to his people and 
in honoring him we honor the best in ourselves.



								CUT TO:



A picture collage of Malcolm X. It reads P.S. 153 -- Harlem honors 
Malcolm on his birthdate May 19, 1935.

				OSSIE DAVIS'S VOICE (contd) 
And we will know him then for what he was and 
is. A PRINCE, A BLACK SHINING PRINCE who didn't 
hesitate to die because he loved us so.



It's a fourth-grade class. 

	CLOSE - STUDENT


		I'm Malcolm X.

	CLOSE - STUDENT

				2ND STUDENT 
		I'm Malcolm X.

	CLOSE - STUDENT


		I'm Malcolm X.

	CLOSE - STUDENT


		I'm Malcolm X.






		I'm Malcolm X.




		I'm Malcolm X.



				3RD STUDENT 
		I'm Malcolm X.



				4TH FEMALE STUDENT 
		I'm Malcolm X.

	CAMERA PANS slowly to head of class where the teacher stands, it's 
	NELSON MANDELA.




		As Brother Malcolm said, "We declare our right 
on this earth to be a man, to be a human being, 
to be respected as a human being, in this 
society, on this earth, in this day, which we 
intend to bring into existence by any means 
necessary."


