


                                 THE PACIFIER


Written by

                      Thomas Lennon 


                             Previous Revisions by

              Jason Fulardi, Scott Alexander 




          March 3rd, 2004







          A fishing boat pushes over choppy water. FOUR GUN TOTING
MEN on Jet Skis wearing black wet suits and goggles
escort the boat. Flying above it is a HELICOPTER.



          A SERBIAN MAN captains the wheel. SERB 2 scans the
horizon with binoculars. He checks the GPS system, then
his watch, then speaks into his throat mic. All italics
are Serbian w/ subtitles:


                   Fifteen minutes to delivery.



          The JET SKIER in the lead weighs in on a radio.



          The HELICOPTER PILOT weighs in.


                    All clear from above.



           The camera descends as the boat passes, and dives beneath
the surface.



           The droning of engines becomes less pronounced. Foam
from the boat and skis bubbles.

          Calm. Then from out of nowhere five NAVY SEALs wearing RE-
BREATHERS appear, in neat formation like the Blue Angels.
JET PROPELLED BACKPACKS push the SEALs through the water.

          The LEAD SEAL: SHANE WOLFE, points upwards. All eyes
follow his finger to the underbelly of the boat above.
From his belt, Shane takes a steel wand with an adhesive
disc attached, aims it at the fleeing boat and FIRES.
A cable shoots up -- THUD... The disc sticks to the
boat's hull. Shane pushes a button on the wand retracting
the cable and drawing himself closer.

          Dangling from the cruiser, Shane fixes a BOMB to the
hull. He releases himself from the boat and speeds away --








          BOOM. A dense explosion sends ripples through the water
and ELECTRICITY crackling around the boat.



          A SURGE of ELECTRICAL FORCE blasts from the control
panel. SPARKS fly.

          The two Serbian Men jolt backwards -- WHAM -- and hit the
wall. All the needles inside all the dials go LIMP. The
roar of the engines DIES and the boat STOPS.



          Shane slips inside the hull, through the new hole.



          The chopper slows to a hover.   The Pilot looks below.


                    What's happening?



          The jet skiers protectively circle the injured boat in a
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING move, and the Jet Ski drivers are
simultaneously YANKED below the surface: a split second
later they're replaced by our SEALS (ALSO IN BLACK WET
SUITS AND GOGGLES) -- the switch happens in less than a
second, way too fast for anyone to notice.



          The shaken Serbs climb to their feet.


                    What happened?

          They look around, and see the SEALS, on the jet skis: In
the masks they are indistinguishable from the GUN-TOTTING
MEN they switched paces with. All seems clear. Serb 1
pushes on the throttle... nothing.


                    We've been hit. We're taking on water.

          Suddenly the boat lists -- and water pours in, under the
cabin door. They spring into action!


                    Grab the professor, quick!







          Serb 1 rushes out, shouting orders: He alerts four ARMED
GUARDS and the Jet Ski drivers (now our Seals).


                    Something must be below us! Shoot! Shoot!

          The Armed Guards fire relentlessly into the water. Serb 2
rushes below deck.



          PROFESSOR CHARLES PLUMMER, bound to a chair and gagged,
tries to YELP as the room begins to flood with water.



          Serb 2 runs down steps to the lowermost hold. He tries to
force the door open. When it finally opens, he is forced
back by a three foot wall of water.



          Professor Plummer panics, as the water rises up to his
mouth He struggles, but can't get free. Up to his nose,
over his head.... He's gone.

          Then Shane Wolf rises out of the water, hauling the
Professor up. He cuts the Professor's GAG. Plummer
screams. Shane removes his mouth piece. Shane doesn't
seem the slightest bit fazed by the circumstances.


                    Lieutenant Shane Wolfe, United States
Navy. I'm gonna get you outta here. But
you have to do exactly what I say, when I
say it. My way -- no highway option. Do
you copy?
(Plummer nods, terrified.)
Where's the briefcase?

          The Professor gestures across the room, where a metal
BRIEFCASE is floating. Shane calmly HANDCUFFS it to his
own waist. As the water rises, to the roof.


                    How did you know where I...

          Shane sticks the mouth piece into Plummer's mouth, giving
him his oxygen.







          The Armed Guards stop shooting into the water. One of
our SEALS calls out to them, in PERFECT SERBIAN:




          The Guards fire again. The SEAL speaks into his neck mic.


                    Give it a second, they're almost out of
ammo.

          The Seal calls out: "shoot more, more!" They do, until
there's nothing but empty CLICKS from their guns.


                    Now Lieutenant. Chopper's four meters at
your 10 o'clock.



          Just before the water envelopes him and Plummer...


                           (into his mic)
I've got the Prof and the case. First
round's on me back at Virginia Beach.

          Shane takes a deep breath, and pulls himself, the
Professor and the briefcase UNDER the water.



          Shane and the Professor rise to the surface as the boat
falters behind them. Shane pulls out a retractable
CROSSBOW. It clicks open and he shoots a CABLE into the
belly of the helicopter above him.


                    Hold on.



          Shane appears at the Pilot's door, holding the Professor.
Shane addresses the Pilot in perfect SERBIAN.


                    You know how to swim?

          The Pilot nods, terrified. Shane TOSSES the Pilot out.

          Shane swings into the hot seat and grabs the controls,
pulling the Professor in behind him.







          The SEALS on the Jet Skis SALUTE Shane in the chopper,
then disappear gracefully back into the water.



          Shane smiles, clearly he loves this kind of day. He looks
beside him, the Professor looks terrified. The Professor
takes out his mouth piece.


                    Oh my God. I can't believe you... how'd
we... That was the most incredible...

          Shane sticks the mouth piece back in the Professors'
mouth, shutting him up.


                    Better keep that on `til we get to the
rendezvous point.


                           (through the mouth piece)
Why? Poison gas?


                           (re: the oxygen)
No. I'm just not big on chit chat.



          A Pave Hawk SH-60 helicopter, rotors whirling slowly,
waits. Shane's chopper appears from behind a tree line
and sets down atop the mountain by a stream.

          Shane and Charles sprint from the chopper towards the
waiting Hawk. Charles stops Shane.


                    Lieutenant, thank you. (He pats his
briefcase) You saved more than just my
life today. Can I call my wife to let
her know I'm okay?


                    Negative. Not imperative to the mission.
We have to keep moving. I have strict
orders to get you out of here safely.


                    I'm safe, Lieutenant. Please. She thinks
I'm dead. (then) Don't you have a family?








                            (this gets him:)
Make it quick.

          Charles picks up his briefcase. He holds the lock up to
his mouth and whispers into it:


                     Joe, Todd, Lulu, Peter, Tyler.

          The briefcase pops open. Shane looks at him, puzzled.


                     My kids. It's voice activated. Designed
it myself. I do security, that's my
specialty. (gestures back:) Those guys
back there tried to get this case open
for five days -- couldn't crack it. And
you should see what happens to you if
open it without the code. I have a
picture of my kids in here, you want to
see it?


                     Negative.

          Charles takes a cell-phone out of the case. Shane looks
in the case: it's EMPTY, except for the phone and a
family PHOTO. Charles dials his cell phone... nothing


                     Battery's dead...

          Shane considers, then hands him his satellite phone.
Charles dials, and talks...


                     Honey, I'm alive...



          Shane climbs in the Hawk and approaches the cockpit.    The
PILOT sits, back to him.


                     We're almost ready.    Just gives us a -

          The Pilot slumps forward... DEAD. Shane turns-


                     Professor, RUN!!!

          WHAM.   Shane drops, knocked unconscious.   All goes black.










          The helicopter is on fire. Wolf lies facedown in the
stream. He looks around, barely conscious.

          SHANE'S P.O.V.: Everything is a blur, in slow-motion. He
sees Charles, unconscious. A Huey Helicopter lands. A
VERY TALL MAN steps out, and takes Charles' Briefcase.
There is huge explosion, as the chopper ignites.
Everything is ablaze. Shane reaches out, grabs the
picture of Charles' kids then goes unconscious.
                                                      F




          TITLE CARD: 1 Month Later



          Shane lies in a hospital bed, despondent. His arm and
face bandaged.

          Shane's Captain enters: BILL FAWCETT (35) -- friendly,
unassuming. He looks like he hasn't slept in days. Shane
salutes him with his bandaged arm -- it hurts to salute,
but he does it anyway.


                    Captain, sir.


                    As you were Lieutenant.

          Bill sits down beside the bed. He takes a long look at
Shane. He holds a REPORT in his hand.


                    We've been through a lot together Shane.
You're the best man I ever trained. And a
good friend.


                    ... I know sir. And I except full
responsibility for the mission's failure.


                    Why the hell did you let him use the
satellite phone?


                    He had to call his family. A lapse in
judgement on my part that I regret sir.





          Bill shakes his head, disappointed. He pulls up a chair,
and sits opposite Shane.


                    ... Plummer was the best security expert
the department of defense ever had -- a
genius. He was working on a program that
scrambles launch codes. He called it
G.H.O.S.T.: Guided High-altitude
Scrambling Transmitter. One pulse from
the GHOST satellite and a country can't
launch its own nukes. That's what the
Serbians kidnapped him for, but they
couldn't get S
inside the briefcase.


                    The case was empty sir, as I stated in my
report.

          Bill considers this. Then...


                    Not a surprise, really. Not like the
professor to hide things where someone
might look for them. G.H.O.S.T. is still
out there, (Bill smiles:) which is why
I'm going to give you another shot.

          Shane sits up. He can't believe his good fortune.


                    Sir. Thank you. I... appreciate your
confidence.

          Invigorated, he pulls off bandages, disconnects an IV,
and starts to rise.


                    I'll need to put a team together. I'm
gonna need the mini sub, I need access to
an EP3 aries 2 spy plane...


                           (interrupting:)
Negative. It's not that kind of mission.

          Shane listens, intrigued.


                    Two days ago, I got a call from the
professor's wife... Widow. She told me
someone had broken into her home.
Searched the place, top to bottom.
                                 (MORE)





                    She's scared. The family's scared.
Whoever killed the professor must think
G.H.O.S.T. is in that house. Maybe it is,
maybe it isn't. Either way, I need
someone to stay at that house, and
protect them. And while you're there --
find out if the program is in there.


                    That's it? Why would you want me for
that, sir.


                    The professor's wife requested you.

          Shane is surprised... Bill pulls a tiny tape recorder
from his pocket, presses play, we hear PROFESSOR
PLUMMER'S voice.


                    Honey, I'm alive. Listen: A lot can
happen between here and home -- if
anything happens to me, call Lt. Shane
Wolfe. He's a good man... anyway, I
should go. I'll call you in an hour. I
love you.

          Shane is shocked, hearing the dead man's voice.


                    ... You gotta problem with this mission?


                    Sirnosir. It's just that... I've never
been very good with kids, sir. Not even
when I was a kid sir.





          Shane packs his duffel bag. He opens a drawer: There's
five t-shirts, identical to the one he wears. He opens
another drawer: Five khaki pants, also identical to the
one he wears. He opens the closet: There's a massive fur-
collared coat. Hm. He rejects it.

          Shane packs his duffel with military gear: GPS compass,
night vision goggles, camouflage vest, machete... they
all go in. Shane heads to the door, then goes back to his
chest of drawers. He reaches in, and pulls out a small,
old MEDAL: the ribbon is faded and frayed. He looks at it
for a moment, then unzips his suit and pins it to the
inside, like it's a lucky rabbit's foot.










          A taxi door opens. Shane looks like a bad ass, ready for
anything. He steps from the taxi onto an adorable TROLL
doll on the sidewalk. It SQUEAKS.

          Shane's P.O.V.: Julie's unkempt suburban house, with toys
all over the lawn, and a "BLESS THIS MESS" welcome mat.

          Shane double-checks the address. The sprinklers go off.
Shane darts to the door and rings the bell (it's one of
those long cheerful doorbells).

          WE hear TINY FEET approach -- then the door swings open,
Shane looks down -- and sees LULU, 8, peering up at him.

          Shane eyes Lulu. Lulu eyes Shane, then:


                    Mom! There's some weird bald guy at the
door!

          SLAM. Lulu shuts the door in Shane's face. Shane frowns.
WE hear heavier footsteps approaching.

                                  EMALE VOICE (o.s.)
(before she sees Shane:)
Look, if you're with the Hare Krishnas,
we're not interested...

          The door opens revealing JULIE PLUMMER. Julie holds
NAKED baby PETER, 2. She sees Shane, and stops, a little
startled by his size...


                           (salutes:)
Lieutenant Shane Wolfe, reporting for
duty.


                    Of course. I'm so sorry.   Thank you for
coming.

          She hugs him. He's not quite sure what to do -- he's a
rock, he doesn't flinch.


                    Come in and meet the rest of the gang.



          It's warm and quiet.   Petite Julie SCREAMS up the stairs-











          Shane startles, covers his ears.


                    Get your butts down here and say "hello!"

          And then three pairs of feet come down the stairs. Lulu,
ZOE, 15, and TODD, 14 line up like the perfect family
portrait. Todd's hair hangs in his face. He wears a Sid
Vicious shirt and a long trench coat.


                    You've already met Lulu. This is Peter,
Zoe and Todd. Kids, this is Lieutenant
Wolfe. He's the man who is going to be
staying with us for a while.

          All the kids except for Todd-


                    Hi.

          Shane nods, stern. On the stairs, a Romanian MAID walks
by, carrying a BABY.


                    And this is Helga and Tyler.

          Shane nods hello to them.


                           (official:)
Ma'am... Baby.


                    Kids, go finish your homework.   And I'll
be checking.

          Zoe, Lulu and Todd climb back up the stairs. Julie leads
Shane into...



          Julie sits, Shane stands "at ease" (which doesn't look
"at ease" at all).


                    You have a pleasant family, ma'am.








                    Charles wasn't around too much. His work
took him all over the world. He'd be gone
six or seven months at a time. So I
think for the younger ones it's a little
confusing. Zoe and Todd... well, they're
dealing like your normal teenagers.
Maybe in Todd's case semi-normal.


                    Mrs. Plummer, I have to tell you that I
did everything I could...


                    Charles was in a dangerous business. I
knew it when I married him. No one's to
blame here.
(beat)
Everyone thinks that Charles told me or
the kids where he hid it. And until
G.H.O.S.T. is found, we're all in danger.


                    Nothing will happen to your family as
long as I'm here. I've dealt with much...

          Suddenly from behind Shane's head a DUCK appears and
NIBBLES his ear. Shane spins in full fight stance. He
sees the Duck... and relaxes. Sort of.


                    That's Gary. He was Charles'.

          The duck QUACKS angrily. Confused, Shane returns to "at
ease," keeping one eye on the duck.


                    Mrs. Plummer-


                    Call me Julie.

          Beat.


                    ... Mrs. Plummer, I'll go secure the
perimeter.


                    I'm glad you're here-








          But Shane is already gone.





          Shane secures the area.       He paces off the yard.

          He mounts surveillance cameras in the eaves.

          He attaches contact alarms in the doors and windows.

          Shane climbs a telephone pole, opens the circuit box and
TAPS the phones.

          Shane, now wearing an EAR TRANSMITTER, crawls through the
shrubs, hiding electric eyes.

           Nighttime -- the family eats dinner. We slowly pull
out... through the kitchen window... and reveal Shane
with night vision goggles on scoping the property.

          The phone RINGS inside. Through the window, Julie
casually answers it. Shane touches his ear transmitter
and LISTENS as he walks into the house.

                                 BILL (o.s.)
Julie, it's Bill Fawcett. I have some
potentially good news.


                    What is it?

                                 BILL (o.s.)
A safety deposit box under Charles' name
was just found in Switzerland. I think
it could contain GHOST.


                    That's wonderful. This could all be over!

                                 BILL (o.s.)
There's a catch. Swiss law says only his
family can access it. I'm going to need
you on a plane tomorrow morning.



          Shane, listening to the conversation, enters-


                    I'll be there.








          Julie and Shane share a look.



          Julie, with her suitcase, Shane, Helga and the Kids stand
in the doorway. Zoe listens to her I-Pod ignoring the hug
Julie gives her.


                    Don't worry about the Kids, Helga will
handle everything. (Worried:) But if
there is an emergency, all the emergency
numbers are on the fridge. And on the
phone. And on the back door...


                    Mom -- we'll be fine, chill.


                           (a little choked up:)
I know, it's just... I am a mom, it's my
job to worry. ... I love you guys. I'm
gonna miss you. I'll be back in 48 hours.
And guys, whatever Lieutenant Wolfe asks
you to do... do it. Okay?
          A
           ll the children nod in agreement except Zoe who pops her
chewing gum bubble.


                    Lieutenant, I don't want you to worry
about anything except the safety of my
children. Helga will take care of
everything else.


                    Don't worry. They'll be safe with me.


                    Everything will be fine, Mrs. Plummer.

          Julie gets in the car and it drives away. Shane turns
back to the kids who loom in the doorway.


                    Tell me, are you licensed to kill?


                    ... No.


                           (she frowns)
Too bad.















          Helga trudges up the path and in.



          Shane, on a short ladder, screws in a surveillance camera
into the corner of a wall when he hears:

                                 MALE VOICE (o.s.)
Prepare to be annihilated!

          Lulu SCREAMS. The sound of MACHINE GUN FIRING.
Immediately, Shane leaps off the ladder and bounds down
the stairs two at a time and into the...



           hane rushes in -- and finds Lulu screaming and giggling
in front of a VIDEO GAME. Shane shakes his head.


                    Could you turn that dow-

          And Shane spies half of Todd's face peeking around a
corner staring at him...
                                 S

                    Hey-

          Todd disappears. WAAAAA!! WAAAAA!! Shane spins, looks
around for the CRYING BABY... can't find him.


                    ... Where's the baby?

          Without looking Lulu points. A diapered Peter stands in
the half full AQUARIUM, pouring in Cheerios. Helga
enters holding the wailing Tyler. Gary suddenly FLIES by -
- WHRRP! Shane ducks. Shane scowls at Helga:


                    You run a very loose ship.


                    You don't like it? You're the SEAL. You
do something. I make bottle.

           elga stomps out. Shane heads down the hall, when in the
corner of his eye -- he sees A FIGURE SCURRY ACROSS THE
BACK LAWN. Shane turns off the light. He shuts off the
window alarm and sneaks out silently.







          The yard is littered with toys. In the middle is a
TRAMPOLINE. He spots the Figure climbing the TRELLIS.
Shane runs, jumps onto the trampoline. He flies in the
air and latches onto the figure. They both tumble to the
ground.

          Shane yanks off the DARK FIGURE's hood, revealing SCOTT
(16) a nervous teenager. He's dazed, but alright, wearing
SHARPER IMAGE night vision goggles.


                    ... Zoe?

          Zoe runs out the door, setting off the PIERCING ALARM.


                    He's my boyfriend, tool.


                    So you're the one who broke in.
Zoe -- go back inside.


                    Okay, fine... come on Scott.

          Shane grabs Scott by the scruff of the neck.


                    Not with this kid. (to Todd:) You --
Gimme twenty!

          Freaked, Scott fumbles for his wallet and gives Shane a
twenty dollar BILL.


                    I meant PUSH-UPS!

          Befuddled, Scott starts to   do lame push-ups. Shane grabs
the back of Scott's shirt,   LIFTING him in the air,
spinning him away from the   house like a marionette. Scott
runs off, calling out from   across the street.
                                 S

                    ... I'll call you, Zoe!

          Zoe storms inside. Shane stands there, fuming. The
Alarm's still blaring. The window of the house next door
opens: a Korean couple, THE CHUNS, pop their heads out.
They're arguing with each other in Korean. Shane
addresses them, IN PERFECT KOREAN with subtitles:
















                    My apologies. We had an intruder. A
simple misunderstanding.


                           (perfect English, no accent)
We speak English, Kojak.


                    Oh. Sorry.


                    ... Look, about the 2000 decibel alarm
and the kleig lights and stuff... we own
a bakery, so we're up kind of early.
Would you mind?


                    Sorry.

          Shane pulls a remote control from his pocket and clicks
it. The alarm stops.


                    Thanks a bunch. Oh, and we found this in
our pool filter... Try to keep that zoo
reigned in, huh baby-sitter?

          Mr. Chun tosses him the TROLL DOLL and slam their window
shut. Shane's about to head inside, he pulls a tiny
camera phone from his pocket, and snaps a shot of the
Chun's car in their driveway.
          I


           hane marches Zoe up the stairs. Loud, angry rock music
blares from Todd's room.


                    Your mother thought you were in real
danger. You should have told her the
truth.


                    Who do you think you are -- my dad?

          Zoe starts to turn -- then suddenly spins and tries
kicking him in the CROTCH. But Shane catches her foot --
and whirls her away. She has to hop on one foot, to not
fall over. He "hops" her down the hall to her room.












                    Let me go! It's Saturday night.   I have
plans!

          Zoe's back to her door, Shane flips her foot in the air.
Zoe falls backwards into the room. Shane shuts her door.


                    Not anymore.

          Shane marches back down the hall, bangs on Todd's door-


                    Lights out.

                                   TODD (o.s.)
Bite me!

          Shane frowns, continues down the hall. He passes the
NURSERY (Peter and Tyler's room), where Helga is singing
a lullaby: (as annoying Has something Barney might sing).


                    When you're down and low, lower than the
floor.
And you feel like you ain't got a chance.
Don't make a move `til you're in the
groove, and do the Peter Panda Dance.
Just hop three times like a kangaroo --

          She does a little "dance" that goes with the lullaby: She
hops forwards three times, then "crab-walks" sideways.


                    Sidestep twice, just like the crabs do.
Three steps forward, one step back.

          She does. The Children, in bed -- laugh and laugh.


                    Then quick like a turtle lie on your
back!
riggle like a snake `til you can't no
more.

           he wriggles on the floor. Then jumps up, to their beds.
Shane shakes his head, keeps walking-


                    This family's in for a rude awakening.




















          The sun rises over the neighborhood, warm orange light.



          Everyone is asleep. In the bedrooms, a SERIES OF SHOTS:


          Tyler snores in his crib.       Peter in his bed.

           ulu is surrounded by stuffed animals.

           odd is out cold, motionless.

           oe is wrapped in blankets. Until A TRUMPET BLARES
"REVEILLE"! Zoe jumps, like she's been electrocuted.


                    Huh?   Wha--?!



          Todd sits up, disoriented, not understanding what's
happening. The Whistle GETS LOUDER. Suddenly his door
flies open -- and Shane strides in with a BOOM BOX. Todd
blinks groggily.


                    W-what are you doing??!


                    You're burning daylight. Move.       Move.


                    It's Sunday...!
(he squints at a clock)
And it's six a.m. You're insane.

          Todd pulls the blanket over his head. Shane flips the
mattress over spilling Todd to the floor.


                    Now move it!

          Todd scrambles to his feet and out the door.



          All the little kids are CRYING. Covering their ears.
Helga runs through in hair curlers, half-asleep and
angry, carrying the crying baby.











                    (She curses in Romanian)


                    Hey. Not in front of the kids.
          S
           he gives him a look of disbelief.


                    What's it matter? Nobody speaks Romanian.


                    Usca mi-as chilotii pe crucea lu mata!

          Helga narrows her eyes, shocked.


                    (She curses Again, in Romanian.)

          Shane's jaw drops.



          The children are assembled, lined up tallest to shortest.
At the end on the floor is Baby Tyler, sucking on a
bottle. Shane firmly starts his Patton speech:


                    Listen up, ladies. Your behavior is
unacceptable. In order to maintain a
state of safety we need to maintain a
state of discipline and order. I've only
got one rule: Everything is done my way.
No highway option. Do you copy?


                    Do you copy?


                    What?   I said -- do you...


                            ("copying" him)
What?   I said -- do you...


                    Do not copy me!


                    Make up your mind.










          Shane starts to speak then thinks better, he's furious.
Everyone stares blankly -- a tense silence. It's broken
by the sound of a large AIR BUBBLE from the aquarium.



                     eter farted.

          Everyone cracks up. Shane tries to maintain decorum. He
reaches into his bag and unpacks a set of small high-tech
SECURITY BRACELETS with a red light and a covered button.
He straps one to each Kid's wrist.


                    Tracking devices. Now that I know I can't
trust you... Never take them off. The
panic button is only for emergencies.
Touch that -- you better be dying, or
you're dead.


                    I am not wearing that. Just because my
mom's paranoid doesn't mean we have to
take orders from you.

          He yells at her, Marine sergeant style:


                    Let me explain how the chain of command
works. I tell you what to do -- and you
do it. End of chain. Now I'm not gonna
have time to learn your names. So you are
-- (pointing) Red 1, Red 2, Red Leader,
Red baby... wait, where's the older male?
There were five.


                           (mysterious)
He walks like Dracula, with footsteps
silent like death --

          Shane looks to Zoe for translation.


                    He's in his room.

          Angry, Shane bounds up the stairs.



           hane marches to Todd's shut door. He tries the knob,
but it's locked. Shane bangs hard on it.











                    Red 4!    Open this door!

          No answer. Shane turns away from the door and DONKEY
KICKS it...SMASH! The wood CRACKS, then CRASHES inward.
The entire frame collapses.



           hane charges in-


                    It didn't have to go down like-

          Todd isn't there. Down the hall -- a FLUSH. Oops.



          The bathroom door opens, and Todd comes sauntering back.
He sees Shane, the destroyed door and wall...


                    All I need is a hammer and some plaster
of Paris. I can fix this.

          A piece of the ceiling falls, hits Shane on the head.


                    Can I get by?

          Embarrassed, Shane steps aside, then mutters-


                    Here's your bracelet. If you'd been
wearing it, this wouldn't have happened.

          Shane SNAPS it onto Todd's wrist, and head down the hall,
patrolling. Zoe comes up the stairs, to her room. She
stops at Todd's door -- they glare at Shane.


                    He has to go.

          Todd nods in agreement.



           hane does one-handed push ups in the living room while
the Duck watches. With his other hand he loads the PHOTO
of the Chun's license plate into his laptop computer.
His head shifts, he hears something suspicious -- the
rumble of a car approaching.











          He rushes for the front door, clicks his alarm remote and
opens it, just as -- WHACK -- the MORNING PAPER connects
with his face, hard. From off-screen we hear a PAPERBOY.




          Shane rubs his nose. Lulu screams at the top of her
lungs. Shane turns, to see that Peter is chasing her,
wearing a towel as a sheet. He pretends to be a ghost.


                    Whhhoooooo!


                    Stop it, Peter!

          Lulu hides behind Shane. Peter Booos again. Lulu screams.


                    Hey, hey, good soldiers aren't afraid of
anything.


                    This house is haunted. Daddy even said
so. He said there's a ghost.

          And then it hits Shane.       His eyes light up.


                    Really?   And where is this ghost?


                    I don't know.     I've never seen it.



          Shane walks slowly down the hall. As he walks he glides
his hands along the wall, feeling, pushing, scanning the
ceiling. Searching.
          I


          Todd and Zoe kneel on the stairs. They surreptitiously
pour COOKING OIL all over the wood.

          Then -- a creak. Zoe whispers.


                    Here he comes...!

          Zoe and Todd run downstairs and hide behind the couch.










          Shane strides to the top step and RAPS on the wall. He
RAPS again, listening for hollow spaces. Nothing. Shane
lifts his left foot out to take a step down...

          When he hears an alert from his laptop. He goes back to
the living room, then turns his attention to his laptop.
MR. Chun's photo appears next to a VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
Shane scans it...

          Todd and Zoe's faces fall. The footsteps again-


                    He's coming back-

          But Helga, carrying a huge laundry basket, appears, takes
a step onto the stairs --




          BUMP! BUMP! BUMP! She flies down the greased stairs,
BANGING her head and ass on each step, all the way down.

            inally, BAM! Helga HITS the bottom with a mighty crash.
She screams, as laundry flutters down from above.
          T


          They gulp, terrified.


                    Uh-oh.



          Establishing.



          Bill and Julie, looking jet-lagged, sit across a desk
from a SWISS BANKER. He seems to be about 100 years old.
He's reading a HUGE stack of paperwork with a magnifying
glass, mouthing along in FRENCH. It's taking him a LONG
time. They wait patiently -- til their patience runs out.


                    As we discussed, this is an urgent
matter.

          The Banker puts up a finger to "shush" him. Then looks
back to the paperwork, then licks his finger to turn the
page. He licks his finger again, but can't get the page
to turn.




          He feebly gets up, and shuffles across the room to a
WATER COOLER. He fills a paper cup with water and
shuffles back to his desk. He dips his finger in the
water to turn the page.


                    Can't you call somebody? Do something to
get us around all this paperwork?


                    Sorry. Not in Switzerland, I can't.

           Bill can't stand it anymore. He jumps to his feet.


                    This is absurd. If we can't get some
faster service, we're going to have to
file a complaint.

          The Banker looks at him blankly.


                    Marcel!

          Another Banker, MARCEL, enters.


                    Oui.


                    Je ne comprende pas.


                           (to Bill and Julie:)
I'm so sorry, the chief does not speak
English. But I can tell you -- you will
have access to the box tout-suite. As
soon as your background checks clear.


                    Thank you. How long is that?



          Helga, suitcases in hand, heads to the door -- Shane
tries to block her path. Peter's in the aquarium. The
duck flies around, QUACKING.


                    AGGH!     These brats!   Sugi Pula!


                    Red Leader, remain calm --







                    I am calm. I QUIT, that makes me calm!


                    Let's not be hasty.

          Suddenly, RING! Amid the chaos, Shane moves for the
phone. Helga takes the opening and runs for the door. He
grabs her suitcase. As she tries to wrestle it away,
Shane picks up the receiver.


                    Hello---
(sees Helga crawling away)
Don't even think about it.

          The suitcase handle breaks off, and Helga dashes for the
door. Shane dives, grabbing her foot. He DRAGS her back.


                    Ah, Mrs. Plummer.
(covering the phone, so Julie
can't hear the struggle)
No no -- everything's fine. You're gonna
be gone how much longer?

           here's a pause, the camera DOLLY/ZOOMS as he says it:


                    Five business days?

           elga's shoe comes off -- Helga falls forwards, and Shane
falls back, against the counter.


                    That is not a problem. Just doing my...

          He picks up his hand, that landed on a diaper.


                    Duty.

          Helga's at the door. Shane body-checks it closed. Helga
struggles to get him off. CRUNCH. Helga chomps down on
Shane's hand...


                    Ah! Things are GREAT!!! You do what you
have to do.

          Shane lets go. Helga scampers out the door.









                    Take care, Mrs. Plummer.

          Shane hangs up the phone, as Helga makes a dash down the
path to a waiting cab.



          Shane chases Helga to the cab.


                    Red Leader! I command you to come back!
That is a direct order! You can't leave
a man behind!!

          Helga jumps in the cab.



                    I don't know the Peter Panda song!!

          As the cab pulls away, in the rear window, Helga glares
back, then does an obscene Romanian hand gesture.



          His jaw drops in disbelief. He drops his head, defeated.
Then -- he slowly glances up.



          The Korean couple is staring at him, dumbfounded.


                    Don't worry, if she loves you, she'll
come back.



          Rises, takes a deep breath and strides inside.



          Shane enters... to find the kids are all gloomy.    The
baby cries. Shane awkwardly picks the baby up.


                    Okay, listen up. There's been a change of
plans. Your mom's not coming back as
soon as she thought...








                             (worried)
When is she coming back?


                      Soon. In the meantime, we're just gonna
have some more big fun.


                      That's what we've been doing?


                      But tomorrow's a school day.


                      I need a signed release for Driver's Ed!


                      I've got Brownies!

          Shane reacts, inundated.


                      Whoa, WHOA! HALT! We'll take this hill
one inch at a time. Only then can we
rise to the challenge. All for one, and
one for all!


                             (singing)
"Be all that you can be!"


                      That's Army. I'm Navy.     But I appreciate
your enthusiasm.

              nice moment.   Until -- FWRPPPP!


                      Tell me that was the duck?

          FWRPPP!    WE zoom in on the baby's leering face.

           hane quickly moves the Baby away from his body. Pure
self-preservation, everyone bolts from the room.


                      Hey.   HEY!

          Nobody will help.     Even Peter runs, holding his nose.








          He gulps.



          Shane enters, holding out the Baby at full arm's length.
He lowers Tyler onto a changing pad, takes a deep breath,
then pulls out PLIERS and a SCREWDRIVER. Using the tools
as chopsticks, he cautiously unfastens the diaper... And
then -- it flops open. SShane GROANS, repelled.


                      The things I do for my country.

          Shane tries approaching -- he can't do it. Aghast, he
looks around for a solution. Then: Shane picks up the
Baby and dips the bottom half in the toilet, then
FLUSHES, over and over and over.



          Shane patrols the hall, making sure all the doors and
windows are locked. Lulu is in her pj's.

          A hand tugs on Shane's shirt, he looks down to see Lulu.


                      Hi. Zoe thinks you look like the Hulk. I
think you're cute.


                             (unsure how to respond...)
Thank you.

          Lulu doesn't go away, she just stares at him, it starts
making Shane uncomfortable.


                      Do you know Kung Fu?


                      Affirmative.


                      Did you ever punch someone so hard that
their head came off?

           hane walks away from Lulu. She follows. Shane is again
twirling the MEDAL in his fingers. Lulu follows at his
heels, like a puppy.








                    What's that medal for?


                    None of your business.


                    I'll trade you a SpongeBob button for it.

          Shane walks room to room, pulling down the shades on
every window.


                    Is that so people can't hurt us?

          He bends down to her level, and tries to sound sweet:


                    I think -- it's time for you take a nappy-
poo, in beddibye land, little girl.

          Lulu looks at him, like he's an idiot.


                    Do I look like I'm five to you?

          Lulu sulks off to bed, and shuts off her light.

          All the lights are out, all the kids asleep. Shane
breathes a sigh of relief, and patrols.



          The Kids are dressed for school. On the table in front of
each place is a tan BAG. The kids sit down at their
designated spots, confused by the MRE's (MEALS READY TO
EAT) in front of them.


                    What are you waiting for?    Dig in.

          Todd, Lulu and Zoe all tear open their bags.

          Todd pulls out a bag of CORN BEEF HASH and a Snickers
bar. Zoe pulls out a bag of FETTUCCINE ALFREDO and some
matches. Lulu takes out a bag of turkey slices and a
coffee packet. Shane smiles, proud of his accomplishment.
The Kids stare at "breakfast," dubious.


                    Don't worry, I can get lots more of
those. And I've survived off this stuff
for months.









                    Like I'm really gonna eat all those
carbs.

          Shane turns to address them:


                    Okay, ladies. Your mama -- is not here to
take care of you now. So -- here's how
it's gonna be. We're gonna pull together,
all for one, one for all. If I say in,
you stay in, if I say out, you go out...

          Peter stands in his chair, dancing...


                    Ba ba do the hokie pokey...


                    I did not say at ease!

          Peter's eyes fill with tears.


                    He's only two, he doesn't have any idea
what you're talking about. I don't have
any idea what you're talking about...

          Shane sighs. Lulu asks Shane:


                    Can you kill a man with your bare hands?


                    You play too many video games. (then:)
Yes.


                    ... I can cross my eyes. Wanna see?


                    Negative.

          Lulu crosses her eyes at Shane, then at Tyler -- who
SCREAMS at the top of his lungs. Shane turns to Lulu.


                    Tyler hates it when I do that...

          Peter starts bawling, too. He runs away, crying. The
table cloth is yanked to the floor. And the phone rings.
Shane answers, trying to hear over the screaming.








                    Plummer residence... yes, I know it's
Monday. Oh. Thank you, sir.

          He hangs up. Zoe smiles at him, innocently.


                    Who was that?


                    Your vice principal. He said if you're
late again, you and Todd are expelled. He
wants to see you in his office. With your
... legal guardian.



          The garage door opens, dramatically unveiling Shane. He's
wearing Tyler in a SNUGGLE. Across his chest, he's got a
bandoleer of baby-bottles and juice boxes. Shane can't
hide his contempt as he sees: Julie's WHITE MINIVAN. A
bumper sticker declares "World's Greatest Mom." Shane
puts Tyler in a CAR SEAT. Its interlocking buckle
connects FOUR WAYS. Shane fumbles with it for a while.
It just doesn't add up...


                    We're gonna be late.


                    Not on my watch.

          Shane TIES the buckles in a fancy knot.



          The car speeds out of the drive, backwards at sixty
m.p.h.. It does a skidding 180 and heads down the street.



          A big suburban school, Busses and PARENTS are parked at
the curb, STUDENTS of all ages are hurrying inside. The
Minivan skids completely sideways, into a TINY parking
spot -- a death defying, perfect parallel park.



          CLOSE UP ON: a stopwatch. It hits ZERO, and at that
moment, the SCHOOL'S BELL RINGS.

          Holding the stopwatch is the VICE PRINCIPAL MURNEY
(50's). He's HUGE and mean.









                    I always said these kids didn't need a
baby sitter, they needed a parole
officer. Looks like Mrs. Plummer finally
listened.

          He glares at Shane, and the Kids: Shane sits with Tyler
in a Snuggle, holding Peter on a harness, as he plays on
the floor. The Kids are seated around him, mortified.


                           (To Shane)
What's your name, son?


                    Wolfe. Shane. Lieutenant. I'm in charge
of watching these kids for... a few days.

          Murney is unimpressed.


                     aby-sitter huh. Well, whatever work you
can get. I'm Murphy. Duane. V.P in charge
of discipline, conduct and truancy. Top
to bottom, K thru 12. You're in my house
now, boy. I coach wrestling, too. (re:
Todd:) And the creeper here played hookey
from every wrestling practice this month.

          The Kids crack up. Murney is furious.


                    She's missed twenty-two Driver's Ed
classes. Out of twenty-three. They're the
worst students in my school.


                    Your school?

          Murney grimaces as PRINCIPAL CLAIRE NELSON (early 30's)
enters. She's attractive, assured, tough. He withers.


                    Good morning kids. What are you doing in
my office, Murney?


                    I was explaining, that as vice principal,
I am in charge of....







                    Very little. I thought I asked you to
find out who stuck to the baloney slices
to the cafeteria ceiling with mustard?


                    I'm got some leads. (then, confidential:)
My informant's about to crack.


                    Then hop to it. I think I can handle this
from here.

          The opens the door for Murney. He exits, fuming.     The
BELL rings.


                    Red 1, Red 2. Get moving.

          The teens hustle off to their classes. Shane checks his
TRACKER -- two little red DOTS move away. Good.

          Principal Claire eyeballs him... staring him up and down,
as he casually holds the three kids.


                    So. You're the new baby-sitter?


                    Bodyguard. You see, Mrs. Plummer called
my captain, she thought the kids needed -


                    It's okay, Lieutenant, I was briefed of
the situation by Mrs. Plummer. She told
me all about you.

          She notices NAVY SEAL tattoo on his upper arm. Claire
sees this -- and suddenly reacts, impressed.


                    Lieutenant, huh? You with "The Teams?"
(Shane nods.)
Petty Officer Third Class Claire Nelson
at your service.


                    ... You're kidding?


                    Four years at Naval base Coronado.   The
Service paid for my college.







          Shane stares not sure whether to believe. On the spot,
Claire looks nervously around. She lifts her pants leg...
revealing a tiny ANCHOR TATTOO on her ankle.


                      "Honor, Courage...


                      Commitment". That's the way I live my
life, and the way I run my school.


                      Can't be too careful. So. Permission to
stick around and keep eyes on the kids?

          She smiles.


                      Permission granted. Welcome aboard. Just
try not to frighten the children.


                      No one will even notice I'm here.





          Shane, dead serious, (Tyler in Snuggle) is riding the see-
saw in the school's playground. Peter rides on the other
side with a group of KIDS, to balance Shane. Shane types
on his laptop: CLAIRE NELSON. A picture of Claire in a
Naval uniform pops up as well as her stats...


                      Clean as a whistle.

          Shane closes the computer, picks up a pair of binoculars.

           BINOCULARS P.O.V. as Shane goes from window to window of
the school: Zoe is glaring at him through the window from
her seat in a class. Todd, sitting in the back row of a
class, yanks his hood over his head. Lulu waves from 2nd
Grade, delighted.

          Along line of FIRST GRADERS wait for the seesaw.


                      Back off. Official Business.










          Shane stands with his Baby snuggle. Peter is running in
circles around him on his harness, like a tether ball. He
checks his tracking device...



          BINOCULARS P.O.V.: Five hundred students eat at long
tables. Zoe, with a group of HIP FRIENDS, turns her back
to him embarrassed. Todd, in line to get lunch, does the
same. Lulu sees Shane and waves.

          Shane puts down his binoculars. He turns to the person in
front of him, with stern intensity.


                    Give up now. Save us both a world of
pain. Now -- last time: Open the hanger,
Black Hawk coming in.

          Reveal: Shane is talking to Tyler, in his safety seat --
trying to get him to eat. Beside Shane, Peter is
destroying a sandwich with animal crackers.


                    Open in T minus three, two, one...

          Tyler gurgles, ignoring him. Shane sighs. Principal
Claire sits next to Shane with her lunch tray.


                    What would you say is the secret with
kids, Mr. Wolfe?


                    Show no weakness.


                    I'll drink to that. (she toasts, with
milk.) Shane... Can I call you Shane?


                    ... Sure.


                    So. When you agreed to serve your
country, I bet you didn't know you'd be
serving creamed bananas to one year olds,
huh?

          Shane gives her a look. Principal Claire smiles.








                    Hey -- I out rank you, you know.


                    Not here, you don't. You're on dry land,
lieutenant. (she looks at his chair)
Well, not so dry where you're sitting, I
guess.

          Shane sees that Tyler is pouring his juice Box all over
Shane's pants. He yanks Tyler away from him.


                    Oh, man...

          Tyler starts to cry -- but Shane stops him from crying by
making a funny face. Tyler laughs. Claire smiles.


                    Don't take this personally -- but you're
pretty good at this. Seriously, I'm
impressed. A whole day, and all three
Plummer's stayed out of trouble.
That's... unusual.

          Suddenly there's a huge crash around the corner, and the
sound of Students in an uproar. Shane hands Tyler off to
the Principal and leaps over the table...



          Students are in a ring, cheering, as four STUDENTS in
Wrestling Jackets hold Todd. One reaches down and gives
Todd a "wedgy" then another WRESTLER punches him. Todd
slips out of their hold and decks the Wrestler. VP Murney
is watching, but not stopping it. Zoe, in the crowd,
cheers Todd on:


                    Kick his butt, Todd!

          Shane and Claire push through the Students. As soon as
they see the Principal, the crowd freezes.


                    Who started this?

          Silence. Then vice principal Murney steps forward.


                    He did. (Todd)







                    Todd started a fight with five students
at once?

          Shane turns to Todd, and "punches fists" with him,
impressed.


                    The kid's mixed up. Look at him.


                    If I catch anyone on the team fighting
again, next week's tournament is off. I
don't care who starts it.

          Murney smirks, and gives her a "I'll handle it" wink.


                    You heard the lady. Any more fighting and
there'll be no more wrestling. Personally
I think that's a little harsh. Boys'll be
boys. (low, to Todd:) `Scept for Plummer
here.

          Todd lunges at him. Shane effortlessly grabs Todd and
Judo FLIPS HIM -- Todd lands on his feet, sticking the
landing. No one is more Ssurprised than Todd and Shane.


                    ... Nice moves, man.

          The Bell rings, the crowd breaks up. Murney approaches
Shane.


                    Pretty slick, Frogman -- I'm a black belt
myself. S'why they asked me to coach the
wrestling team.

          Murney makes a loud Kung Fu CRY and throws a punch,
stopping an inch from Shane's head. Shane doesn't flinch.


                    See -- total control. Maybe you could
stop by practice, we'd show the boys how
a couple of pros do it, what do you say?
Come on, promise I'll go easy on you.


                    ... Sorry, sir. I'm on duty.









                    Oh, yeah. That's right. I forgot you had
to baby-sit. Maybe some other time then.

          Shane puts an arm over Todd's shoulder. Todd shakes him
off and heads to class. Murney snickers to Claire:


                    Looks like pretty boy there's all bark
and no bite.


                    ... Don't even think it, Murney. He'd
kill you so fast, I wouldn't even have
time to get my camera.



          Shane looks exhausted. Peter is asleep in his shoulder,
Tyler is crying, as he keeps watch. The Principal strolls
up.


                    Another day, another dollar twenty, minus
taxes... aren't you gonna change him?


                    I'd love to, for one who'll eat, and not
cry.


                    That's not what I mean, Lt.

          Then Shane smells what she means -- Tyler's diaper is
full. Shane recoils in disgust, holding Tyler out like a
grenade.


                    Oh -- change him. Roger that. Uh...

          Panicked, he pushes Tyler towards the Principal.


                    Sirnosir. Not my job.


                    But...


                    Instructions are right on the box.
Bathroom's down the hall. Have fun.





          Just then, an alarm in his Jacket GOES OFF. He looks at
his tracker: it's flashing RED 3 RED 3. Shane hands off
Peter and Tyler to the Principal.


                    Emergency!



          Shane runs down the hall, following his tracking device.
It leads him to a door. He bursts though it, doing a
shoulder roll.



          2ND GRADERS are sitting on the floor. Lulu is in front of
the class, with the Panic Button in her hand. The board
reads: SHOW AND TELL. Shane lands in fight stance -- the
Class applauds. Next to Lulu is a very upstaged LITTLE
BOY with a FROG. Lulu sticks her tongue out at him.


                    See! My nanny can kick your nanny's butt.

          Shane is furious, but the FINAL BELL rings. At that
moment, his Tracker Alarm sounds again. He looks:

          CLOSE-UP ON THE TRACKER SCREEN: Two DOTS labeled RED 1
and RED 2, are heading away from the school fast.
          I


          Shane runs with Lulu through the mob of Kids. He hands
her to the Principal.


                    Thanks.



          Shane dives into the Minivan. The DOTS on the tracker are
headed North. He speeds away after them.



          The BLINKING DOTS on his tracker are side by side, racing
down the road ahead of Shane. They make a sharp right.
Shane makes a right, almost tipping the minivan. He
blasts through a red light.








          He turns a corner -- a PLYWOOD WALL surrounds the site.
He leaps out of the minivan. He looks at the tracker: Zoe
and Todd are dead ahead, through the fence.



          Two BIG CONSTRUCTION workers are standing on the other
side of the plywood wall -- Shane KICKS out one entire
section, and charges through.


                    What hell do you think you're doing?

          He turns around, to see several CONSTRUCTION WORKERS, all
brandishing tools.


                    Tell me where the kids are and I'll let
you all live!


                    Buddy, you're about to get a beat down.

          Three Workers rush him. Shane easily takes them out. The
remaining Workers give Shane a scared look -- then RUN.



          He's alone. He catches his breath, then checks his
tracker. Todd and Zoe's BEEPS are coming from a MANHOLE.

          Shane pries off the manhole cover.    He looks down.

          IN THE MANHOLE - It's dark and dank.

          No sweat. Shane lowers himself down.



          Shane lands shoulder deep in DISGUSTING SLUDGE. He
winces, then checks the tracker -- the DOTS are CLOSE,
feet away. Shane trudges through the river of muck.


                    Red 1?   Red 2?

          It's horrific. The DOTS BEEP LOUDER. He's almost there!
He splashes around a corner -- then gasps -- he sees the
blinking lights below the surface. He takes a deep
breath and dives under. He comes up for air with ZOE and
TODD'S HOMING BEACONS. A note is tied to them: "Ha! Ha!"







          Principal Claire sits with the Kids in the living room.
From outside, they hear the front door open, and the
sound of OMINOUS, SQUISHY footsteps.

          Then the door swings open, revealing Shane, looking like
a Swamp Creature. Everyone gasps, then covers their
noses. A CUTE YOUNG COP enters behind Shane. Todd
stiffens. Zoe fixes her hair. The Cop looks at them.


                    14 year old Male, weird hair. 16 year old
female. Ditto. (into his radio:) Cancel
that a.p.b..

          The Cop turns to Shane, with a smirk.


                    In the future, use our nonemergency
number. That's the one to call if
nobody's fleein' or bleedin'.

          The Cop leaves, Zoe checks him out as he goes...


                    Shane are you okay?


                           (eerily calm:)
Just fine, thank you.

          Covering her nose. The smell is BAD.


                    I should probably get going then. If you
need anymore help... Call.

          She practically GAGS as she passes him. Shane looks
around at Scott and Zoe, he doesn't say anything, but
with his hand he makes a "my eyes on you" gesture.



          Shane is in the shower. He pours an entire bottle of
SHAMPOO over himself.



          Shane BURNS his clothes in the barbecue.










          Tyler is in a high-chair, Peter rocks in a cradle-swing.

          Shane enters, in just a towel. He sees on the fridge;
Helga'S SHOPPING LIST -- all junk food. He looks at it,
cringing in disgust, before he notices:

          Sitting around the table are Lulu's entire BROWNIE TROOP -
- a dozen little girls in uniforms, they're staring at
him. The Brownies applaud, and whistle.


                     oo hoo! Hubba hubba!

          Shane covers up and leaps into the Family Room, pulling
Lulu after him.




                    Who are those people?


                    It's my troop, it's Monday. Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday are troop nights.


                    Get rid of them.


                    I can't. Everybody's parents go out on
troop nights. They won't be home `til
ten. Mom's our den mother.

          Lulu starts to sniffle, close to tears.


                    Tonight we're supposed to sell cookies.


                    Selling cookies isn't imperative to my
mission.


                    We have to. If we don't sell enough
cookies, we can't go the Jamboree, and if
we can't go to the Jamboree.
(whispers:)
Come on, Shane. You gotta help me out.
They already think I'm a loser. And it's
not like I have any other friends, cause
mom never lets me out of her sight...





          Lulu's about to burst into tears. Shane sighs.



          Shane, back in "uniform," paces in front of the Brownie
Troop. They are assembled, at attention, Indian Style.


                    Alright, ladies. Here's how it's gonna
be. Tonight, I'm gonna be your den --
commander. That means if you want to live
to see tomorrow, do as I say. DO WE
                    UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER?

          The Brownies stare art him in stunned silence.


                    Den Mother? ... I'm scared of you.


                    Good. Now -- wait here.



          The Brownies are in the living room, unpacking boxes of
cookies, getting ready to go. Zoe's on the phone.


                    ... yeah, he's a total psycho. I think
mom found him from one of those Tough
Love boot camps or something...

          Shane blows passed her, revving a cordless POWER DRILL.

          VARIOUS SHOTS: As Shane uses the drill to seal every
window and door. He's not just locking them -- he's
          SCREWING THEM SHUT WITH DRYWALL SCREWS.



          Shane's finishing up the last window.


                    This is totally cruel and unusual! You
can't do this -- we could run out of air!

          Shane lifts her window so it's open a HALF INCH, then
drills it into place. Shane ushers the Troop out the
door, then loads Peter and Tyler into TWO SNUGGLES -- one
attached to his front, the other to his back. Shane
closes the front door and attaches a "Club" lock to it.









          Shane Loads the brownies and toddlers into the minivan.

          As the minivan pulls out of the driveway, the camera
CRANES up to...



          Inside, Zoe picks up the phone, hits speed-dial.


                     .. he's got us on lock-down, it's like
Oz or something. No, not munchkin Oz --
HBO Oz. (she listens:) Hm... I dunno if
that's a good idea, Scott...



          Shane pulls the minivan into the crowded parking lot --
the Brownies are all singing 99 Bottles of Beer on the
Wall at the top of their lungs.



          Shane (double-Snuggled) helps the Brownies set up a card
table to display their cookies.


                    I gotta get supplies. I can see you
through the window, but if anything
happens...


                           (flashing her bracelet)
I know.



          Shane watches the Brownies on the store's CLOSED CIRCUIT
monitor, as he pushes a cart into the store. He looks
around at the bright, colorful boxes of Children's
Cereals, Rainbow Fruit Roll-Ups, Snack packs... NOTHING
looks familiar -- nothing even looks like food.

          He sees: a huge, 100 pack VALUE CASE of SPAM. He smiles.
Tyler looks at him -- "what are you, nuts?"



          The Brownies are trying to sell the cookies, but they're
very shy. SHOPPERS blow passed them without even noticing
them. One of the Brownies spots something...








                    Oh no... they're back.

          SLOW MOTION: In a shot out of Reservoir Dogs, we see who
she means: A group of bad ass, chubby CUB SCOUTS. They're
headed straight towards the cookie table, menacingly.


                           (to another Scout)
Hey Skeever, what's stinky and floats
`til you flush `em?


                    Brownies?

          The Scouts cackle. The Ugly Scout yanks a box of cookies
away from Lulu. He rips it open, dumping the cookies on
the ground and grinding Uthem with his foot.


                    This is Troop 16 territory. How are we
supposed to sell raffle tickets when this
place reeks of your skanky cookies?


                    BEAT IT, before I get my face punching
badge on you.

          The Brownies take off running, clutching their boxes. One
of the Scouts grabs Lulu -- she tugs and tugs, but can't
get away. Finally, the Cub Scout takes her SCARF. He
laughs, and lets her go. The Cub Scouts high-five.



          Shane heads to the Brownie's table -- but Lulu and the
Brownies are gone. In their place are the Chubby Scouts.


                    Where are my troops?


                    ... I haven't seen anybody, you Skeever?


                    Nope. You wanna buy a raffle ticket?
We're trying to win .22's.

          Around his neck, Shane's monitor starts beeping. Shane
takes off running in the direction of the signal.









          Shane runs up to the minivan. The Brownies are huddled
behind it, trembling.


                    What happened? (No one answers) Well?


                    Those boys over there broke our cookies.

          Shane eyes the Cub Scouts. Dead serious:


                    Well then -- I'm afraid I have to
eliminate them. If I don't come back --
avenge my death.

          He heads toward the Scouts. The Brownies scream.


                    No!

          Shane stops. He bends down, and points at Lulu's Panic
button. He firmly tells Lulu, who's close to tears:


                    This is not a toy. I'm here to protect
you. Not cookies. Get in the car, we're
going home.


                    You can't take us home yet, you're
supposed to take us to dinner.


                    Where?



          An extreme CU of the Chuck E. Cheese MANAGER. He wears
braces and head-gear, which causes him to lisp.


                    Welcome to Chuck E. Cheese!

          Wider reveals...CHAOS. SCREAMING CHILDREN everywhere.
On stage, the Chuck E. Cheese automaton band JAMS.


                    I wish I were in Chechnya.









          Brownies are running around, playing video games and skee
ball. Shane's watching Peter, in the PLASTIC BALL POOL,
while he holds Tyler in the Snuggle. The Manager
approaches Shane.


                    Anything elsh I can do for you?


                    In a big glass (he shows him)   This much
ice... this much cyanide.

          The Manager laughs, but the headgear seems to hurt his
face when he smiles.


                    How `bout a re-fill on that pischer of
Mischer Pibb?


                    What?


                           (gesturing:)
Pischer of Mischer Pibb?   Mischer Pibb?

          Frustrated, the Manager picks up a pitcher and exits.
Lulu approaches, she grabs Shane by the sleeve and drags
him over to the stand up Mortal Kombat game.


                    Let's fight!


                    I'm watching your brother...


                    I pressed two player. I thought you liked
combat. Unless you're scared.

          Shane doesn't like the sound of that. He steps up to the
machine. He cracks his knuckles, stretches. Then he takes
a joy stick. He checks over his shoulder -- Peter's
happily splashing about in the plastic balls.

          ON THE SCREEN: they each select a fighter. Lulu picks a
small female character. Shane picks a man who looks LIKE
SHANE. They begin, Lulu screams out with her fighter, in
unison:


                    Prepare to be annihilated!







          She leaps over Shane in a somersault and throws a DOZEN
throwing stars. Then kicks him in the head repeatedly.


                    That's not fair. Nobody can jump thirty
feet.


                    The Hulk can.


                    That wasn't a documentary.

          The second round starts, Brownies have gathered around to
watch. Lulu's fighter does a series of kicks. Shane can't
even get one punch in -- she pins him to the ground,
kneels on his head, then kicks him in the face. Shane is
taking it really seriously. He's really mad.


                    This isn't fair. My joystick's broken.


                    You wanna switch?

          They switch sides. Round three starts. Lulu's fighter
picks up Shane's in the air, spins her, then cracks her
in half over his knee... and then a kick in the face.


                           (re: the Snuggle)
You don't have a baby on your chest...

          Lulu's having fun now, she's just avoiding Shane's
fighter, dancing, jumping, while he pounds the buttons,
swinging and missing... Shane's really fuming.


                    You're not even trying...





                    Too slow... come on -- take a shot...
oops too slow... swing and a miss...

          She keeps dancing. It's really annoying. Shane's working
the joy stick hard, slamming buttons, but he can't hit
her. He is KO'd. She does a very obnoxious VICTORY DANCE.








                    In your face! I am the greatest hand-to-
hand combat champion in the entire world!

          Shane screams and RIPS THE JOYSTICK OFF THE MACHINE.
Sparks fly. Shane looks around to see if the staff
noticed. He and the Brownies sneak away, leaving the
sizzling machine, its joystick dangling by its wires.



          Zoe's on the phone, the Zhouse is quiet.


                    Mom -- stop worrying.






                    I'm a mom, it's my job to worry.


                    Seriously, everything's cool. The guy's
just a control freak.


                    It's only a few more days. I hate leaving
you, but you know I have to do this. I
love you.


                    I know. Don't worry, we're okay. Tonight
I'm just doing homework -- in my cell.



          As Zoe hangs up, we WIDEN OUT: The house is PACKED with
TEENAGERS: they're keeping quiet until the phone is in
its cradle, then the TEENAGE DJ starts the music back up.

          Zoe looks around at the mess. She turns to Scott, who
doesn't seem concerned at all.


                    Dude, this is outta hand. Who are all
these people?


                    Jus' ma peeps. And the folks who read my
                    BLOG.





          Zoe rolls her eyes, then notices a WEIRD SWEATY KID,
who's throwing mustard covered baloney slices at the
ceiling, where they stick with a satisfying SQUISH.


                    Dude, not cool...

          VARIOUS SHOTS - The Plummer House:

          - Its a huge party: the place is JAMMED, kids everywhere.

          - Teenagers come and go through the kitchen's DOGGY DOOR.



          Shane (Tyler in Snuggle), loads Brownies into the
minivan, counting them. Barking at them like Marines:


                    Move, move, move! Go go!



          Shane drives, the Brownies are singing 99 Bottles...
again. Suddenly, a look of horror comes across Shane's
face... he spins the minivan in a 180 and floors it.



          Shane (Tyler in Snuggle) bursts in, the Brownies follow.
We see what he forgot: PETER, still happily playing in
the pool of plastic balls. The Manager is watching him.


                    I figured you'd come back for him -- they
almost always do.


                    Inexcusable, to leave a man behind like
that...


                    Relax, we once found a kid in the ball
pool when we opened in the morning --

          Shane wades into the ball pool and pulls Peter out, which
is fine, except that he's MISSING HIS DIAPER.


                    WHOA, Whoa. Not okay, freestyling in the
ball pool -- not okay.










          Shane grimaces. He holds his breath, and goes down for
the diaper. He disappears under the balls -- for a long
time. The Manager and the Brownies share a concerned
look. He's still down there. Silence.


                    Should we send someone in after him?

          He surfaces, gasping. He's holding the diaper, out away
from him. He charges across the room with the diaper.


                    Clear out! GO GO GO!

          And he bursts out the other doors, at a full run.



          Shane is exhausted, as he pulls up in the Minivan. He
gets out -- and groans in disbelief. It's insanity: HIP
HOP blasts, gyrating TEENAGERS everywhere, chugging
drinks, making out, peeing in the bushes, jocks throwing
footballs.

          Reeling, Shane takes Lulu, Peter and Tyler up the path.
He protectively guides them past the craziness -- until a
football suddenly WHIZZES by. Outraged, Shane snatches
it mid-air -- then CRUSHES the ball. POP!

           hane gives a blood-curdling stare.


                    Party's over.

          The jocks flinch, scared, then RUN.   Shane unlocks the
CLUB lock off the door.



          Inside is worse, a total wreck.   Zoe's dancing with
Scott.

          Shane drags the needle across a record at the D.J.'s
turntables. Everyone recoils from the horrible sound.


                    No one leaves until this house is
spotless! I want to be able to eat off
the floor! The latrine! Hell, I wanna
be able to eat in the kitchen!!

          Nervous glances -- then everybody suddenly RUNS for the
back! Shane is confused, trying to understand...




          then he intuitively dashes past them! He's scoping the
surroundings... windows... vents... AH! The doggy door!

          Scott is halfway through the doggy door when Shane grabs
his ankles and yanks him back in. Shane holds Scott
upsidedown by his ankles.


                    Oh no you don't. Now, we're gonna do this
my way -- no highway option.

          Just then: A MUSTARD SOAKED BALONEY SLICE drops from the
ceiling, sticking to the TOP of Shane's head. PLOP.
Shane's eyes narrow, he takes it off, trying to maintain
his dignity. He fumes...


                     Start swabbing, ladies.

          He hands Scott the mop. Scott gulps - and starts mopping.





          Miserable TEENS scrub. In a bathroom, Scott and Zoe, in
Playtex gloves, furiously clean. Scott scrubs the toilet
with Pinesol as the Duck swims in the top of the toilet.


                    This is officially the worst party ever.


                    It was YOUR idea! I don't even know most
of these losers.



          Shane inspects the house, as kids clean. Shane wipes a
finger down the sofa. Clean. He lifts the sofa, and rubs
his finger UNDER IT. He holds it up to a KID... residue.
The Kid quickly starts cleaning again.

          A GIRL reorganizes a stack of CD'S. Shane goes over
them, straightening -- then he notices something. He
pulls out a CD: It is a home-burned disk, labeled with a
Sharpie. It reads: GHOST. Oh my god...
                                                               CUT TO:



          Two DARK CLAD FIGURES watch, through binoculars. They see
Shane find the CD, and walk out of sight.








          Shane quickly tucks the CD into his pocket.





          A long line of exhausted party-goers files out. Scott's
the last one to leave.



          Shane works his way through the house. It's SPOTLESS:
counter tops glisten, furniture polished. It looks like
Better Homes and Gardens. He heads upstairs. Zoe blows
past him -- into the bathroom, where she throws up. Shane
sits down, outside the bathroom door.


                    ... Thanks a lot, Rambo. My friends will
never come here again.


                    Those people aren't your friends. They
show no respect for you or your house.
Because you have no respect for yourself.


                    I do too respect myself.

           ueasy, she pukes again. Shane hands her a handkerchief.


                    You got barf on your tank top.
(Announces:) Company, downstairs!

          He walks down the hall, Zpounding on doors.


                    You're not my dad!

          Shane stops. Lulu and Todd step into the hall. Zoe gets
up, shaky and furious, and screams in Shane's face.


                    We hate you, you hate us. You're like a
robot. Why don't you just leave us alone?

          Silence. Lulu's crying, Todd picks her up. Shane stands,
helpless. After a beat...









                    You're right, Red 1. I'm not the man for
this job.


                    Shane --!


                    In all my years I have never been treated
with such disrespect. Not even from the
enemy. Don't worry, as soon as your mom
comes back, I'm gone.

          Suddenly -- the power goes out.


                    Now what?


                    (sighs, tired) It's Scott...


                    Puberty... talking doesn't do any good.
Go to your rooms.

          Suddenly, TWO NINJAS, all in black BURST in through the
window. Shane spins in fight-stance.


                           (to the kids:)
Go!

          Terrified, Zoe and Todd scoop up the kids and rush down
the hall.

          The Ninjas pull a retractable KENDO STAFFS. Wielding them
with great skill. It takes all of Shane's skill to fend
them off -- the three fight, close-quarters and fast.
Until Shane pulls down attic's spring-loaded FOLDING
LADDER and clocks a Ninja with it. He goes down, but
Shane is SHOCKED from behind by the other NINJA. The
Ninjas attack, fiercely -- they're good. Their Kendo
staffs hiss with a powerful ELECTRIC CURRENT. The Ninjas
knock Shane backwards down the stairs...


                    GHOST -- hand it over!

          They leap down after him, pounding him with their staffs,
knocking him into...









          There are TOYS EVERYWHERE -- like a tornado hit a TOYS-R-
US. Shane fends the Ninjas off. He spots a BASEBALL BAT,
and grabs it, facing them, fiercely. They step back...


                    Okay -- who wants some?

          Shane swings the bat down on a Ninja's head: It's a
whiffle bat, it makes a silly thunk. Shane and the Ninja
share a surprised look -- then the Ninjas charge. Shane
fends them off with his Whiffle bat. With his foot, he
picks up a FISHER PRICE CORN-POPPER, and uses them both
to fend off blows. It rattles and pops as he fights with
both Toys -- until a Ninja breaks them with one blow.
Shane sees a FARMER JOHN TALKING GAME. He jumps up onto a
shelf and grabs it. He pulls the string, and swings the
plastic disk like a deadly bolo.


                    The rooster goes...

          WHACK, he hits a Ninja in the head. He swings the Farmer
John like a bull whip -- until a Ninja knocks the shelf
over. Shane crashes down, toys fly, several FURBIES hit
the floor. They echo the fight:


                    Ow! Ow!

          Shane sees: The Ninjas are wearing only Ninja socks -- no
shoes. He grabs a barrel of LEGOS, and flings them all
over the floor. The Ninjas move towards him -- the Legos
and Jacks dig into their feet.


                    Ow! Ow ow! Crap!

          The Ninjas fight as they hobble around, avoiding Legos,
Shane runs to the changing table, then violently squeezes
DESITIN at a NINJA, blinding him.

          Shane hangs in the doorway and swings at them, KICKING a
Ninja in the chest. The Ninja CRASHES through the window!

           he other Ninja looks up, fearful. Suddenly he grabs a
bottle of BABY POWDER. He sprays it in Shane's face...
POOF! The room fills with a CLOUD OF WHITE.







          He squints, blinded. The cloud dissipates... and Shane
sees he's now alone. He runs to the broken window.



          The Ninja's are long gone. Shane bangs the window sill,
disappointed to have lost them.



          Composing himself, Shane approaches Zoe's door.     He
quietly knocks.


                     Kids.   It's safe. You can open up.

          A long pause -- then the door creaks open. The kids run
out and hug Shane with all their strength, bawling. Todd
and Zoe enter, terrified. Shane isn't sure what to do...
Then, he hugs Peter and Lulu. He really hugs them.


                     Please don't leave us Shane.


                     I'm not going anywhere.

          He hugs them, even Zoe is crying and hugging Shane.


                     I'm sorry for giving you a hard time.


                     Shhh... It's okay.


                     Who were they? What did they want...?


                     They're looking for a program, that your
father invented.


                     So Mom's not paranoid? There really are
people out to get us.

          He takes out the CD labeled GHOST.


                     They're not after you. They want this.
But nothing's gonna happen to you, as
long as I'm here. And I'm not going
anywhere.





          The kids shudder, relieved. They hug him tighter. He
looks Zoe, eye to eye. He dries her tears:


                    But I can't do this without your help,
okay? We need a little more cooperation
here. (the Kids nod) Tell you what --
let's start over. From now on, you listen
to me, and do what I say. (to Zoe and
Todd:) And I... I'll listen to you too.
Deal? Truce -- okay?

          Zoe and Todd nod. Shane offers his hand to shake. They
shake -- then they hug him, too.



          Shane and the Kids sit around Shane's computer. Shane
slips the Ghost CD in the disc drive, pushes play --


                    C'mon c'mon c'mon...



          The SOUND comes on: it's MUSIC. "Unchained Melody." And
then, PICTURE: Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze at a pottery
wheel. Shane is furious -- a long pause. Then...

          Zoe laughs: she can't help it, it's been a long night.
Then, the other kids join in. Soon, even Shane is
laughing too: the telephone RINGS -- they all jump,
startled. Zoe answers it, all smiles, she tries to play
it cool and not frighten her mother:


                    Hey mom we're fine, absolutely nothing
happened you should worry about. Nope.

          Shane takes the phone.


                    Mrs. Plummer... two men tried to get into
the house tonight.






                    Oh my god!









                    No - it's okay. They're gone, everyone's
fine. They were looking for GHOST, but
they didn't find it. You have any luck?


                    Well, yes and no. We found something in
the box... But we're not sure what it is.
Bill thinks it's part of the GHOST. It
looks like some kind of "key". We just
don't know what its for.

          She holds up the strange, metal two pronged KEY.


                    The good news is I'll be home in two
days, as soon as the customs paperwork
clears.


                           (very genuine)
...So soon? We were just starting to have
fun. Don't worry -- we'll be just fine.



          Early morning, students run in to school. The minivan
pulls up, and Shane emerges with the five kids.


                    I gotta warn you guys: From now on, I'm
gonna be sticking even closer.



          The TEACHER shows the children how to dye Easter eggs.

          ANGLE on Lulu, making a mess of an egg.   She smiles.

          ANGLE on Shane, squashed at a little desk.   He dips an
egg in some purple dye.



          Driver's Ed. An obstacle course with cones. Zoe
nervously drives a small sedan, a crazed TEACHER next to
her. He is gesticulating, SCREAMING, reacting each time
she HITS the gas, then BRAKES, HITS the gas, then BRAKES.

          Shane stands off to the side, shaking his head.    Peter
and Tyler are tight in their Snuggles.







          The TEACHER hangs a series of cute "Turkey Hand" drawings
above the blackboard (the kind where your fingers make
the feathers). She hangs one of a HUGE HAND, and smiles
at Shane, who sits in the back, sunglasses on. Shane
nods, "yeah, I know it's good." Then...


                    Will Shane Wolfe please report to Vice
Principal Murney in the gym.

          Lulu's classmates all chant, in unison:


                    Ooooooooh! (You're in trouble!)



          Shane enters. Zoe sits in a folding chair, mortified. She
is holding a broken-off SIDE VIEW MIRROR. Murney stands,
Principal Claire next to him. They look concerned.


                    Don't worry. So, she wrecked a driver's
Ed. car -- she'll pay for the damage...


                    That? Lady drivers, what do you expect.
No, it's not that -- it's the boy...


                    Red two? I mean Todd?

          Claire nods. Shane gives Zoe a look. Zoe shrugs.


                    Ordinarily I would wait for his mother to
return... but -- I'm a bit concerned, and
I'm not sure what to do...


                    Has he been skipping class?


                    Well -- yes. He does always miss sixth
period. But this...

          Murney calls into the hallway. Todd enters. Shane stops,
in shock: Todd's long hair is all shaved off, he now has
a bleach blonde BUZZ CUT, giving him a "skinhead" look.









                    This is how he showed up to practice. And
that's not all. I was doing a little re-
con in his locker... and I found this:

          Murney hands Shane a book and Shane flips through it.
It's a book of photographs of NAZI UNIFORMS. Shane
scowls.


                    If he'd had Hustler or something, boys
will be boys -- but this is just sick.


                    He's not a NAZI.


                    It's certainly not normal.
(pulls Shane aside.)
See if you can talk to the boy.   Find out
what's going on.

          Shane shakes his head: Todd is worse than he thought.
Todd and Zoe stand to go, and Shane walks them out.

          The WRESTLING TEAM is assembled, stretching. They snicker
and shake their heads at Todd, as he passes. Shane walks
the kids out, and Murney chases after him.


                      hope you won't go light on him -- that
whole family's no good, if you ask me.


                    I'll talk to him.


                    You're a good man, Shane. Bet you're a
hell of a fighter on the mats, huh?
(Shane ignores him, and keeps
walking.)
Maybe sometime we oughta strap up, we'll
give these boys a treat.

          He "fake-punches" one of his Boys -- who flinches like
Murney has maybe hurt him a couple times. Murney laughs.


                    Another time, maybe...


                    It's a date then. I'll show you a couple
moves. I promise I won't hurt you.







          Shane walks away. Without warning, Murney lets out a Kung
Fu SCREAM, and leaps at Shane, kicking him in the BACK,
Shane trips forwards to his knees. Murney tells his team:


                    See that? You never know when your
adversary is going to strike!


                    Did you kick me in the back? Is there a
footprint on my jacket?

          Shane dusts off his back, and leaves.


                    Come on Frogman! Don't be a sissy!

          Shane turns back. It looks like Shane might fight, but
instead he takes a deep breath, and leaves. Murney shakes
his head, and snickers to his Team.



          The minivan pulls up, with Shane and all the Plummers
piled in. Shane parks, Todd runs towards the house. Shane
holds Todd back by the arm.


                    Wait Todd, I want to talk to you...

           odd yanks his arm away and runs into the house.



          Shane knocks on Todd's door. Nothing. He enters. The
window is wide open, Shane checks his window alarm --
there's a REFRIGERATOR MAGNET stuck to it, keeping the
contact, so the alarm didn't go off.


                    Smart kid.

          Shane looks out the window -- far down the block, he can
see Todd, running around the corner. Shane hops out the
window. He sees Zoe, peering out her window.


                    Zoe, you're in charge. If anyone gets
within forty clicks of the perimeter,
signal me. Keep all doors sealed, do your
homework, preheat the oven, and make sure
Lulu brushes her teeth!






          He starts to shut the window, but the Duck leaps up on
the sill.


                    You want in or out?

          The Duck leaps out. Shane screws the window shut. On the
corner, Shane sees Todd climbing on to a CITY BUS.

          Shane picks a GIRL'S BICYCLE up off the front lawn. It's
pink, with a flowered basket. It's small for him, but he
hops on and pedals furiously after the bus.



          Shane, on the girl-bike, pedals after the bus. A few
HOMEBOYS watch him pass, curiously. He nods back, tough.



          The bus stops in a rundown neighborhood Todd hops off the
bus. Shane's arrives a moment later, dripping sweat. He
stashes the bike behind a mailbox...

          Shane'S P.O.V.: At the entrance to the old warehouse,
Todd meets up with three other TEENAGE BOYS, they're
dressed in brown HITLER YOUTH UNIFORMS, they head inside.

          Shane follows them, stealthily.



          Shane follows the Hitler Youth into a large room, set up
with folding chairs. He hides in a dark corner. Todd and
the Hitler Youth enter, and take seats. A CREEPY MAN in
a scarf walks out, and stands in front of them. Shane
watches as the MAN addresses the Hitler Youth.


                    Alright. All my Nazis are finally here.
Okay, I want all of you at attention.

          The Nazis stand at attention. Shane is horrified...


                    And on stage left - (he yells) VON
TRAPPS! I need my Von Trapps!

           hane watches... as a group of blonde ACTORS, all dressed
in lederhosen as the SINGING VON TRAPP family enter, and
join the "Nazis." There's also a few NUNS, a CAPTAIN VON
TRAPP, and a MARIA. The Creepy Man is, in fact, a good
natured, slightly foppish DIRECTOR.







                    Okeydokey. Starting from where we left
off Gimme Rolf and Liesl -- let's give
You are Sixteen a run up der flagpole...

          Todd heads up to the stage, the Director arranges him and
the ACTRESS PLAYING LIESL (40ish) into position. An
ACCOMPANIST begins on piano, Todd sings, remarkably well:


                    You wait little girl, on an empty
stage/for fate to turn the light on/your
life little girl, is an empty page/that
men will want to write on...


                    To write on...


                    You are sixteen, going on seventeen...

          Shane bursts into laughter. His whole face lights up for
the first time ever...

          Todd and Liesl dance. Todd is good, but nervous. He
attempts a spinning kick, but he slips, and hits the
stage, clutching his ankle. He gets up, and limps to the
seats. The Director walks onto the stage, upset. He
looks up, to heaven:


                    Baby Jesus, have I done some unspeakable
evil that I deserve to be saddled with
the world's worst production of Sound of
Music? (he shouts, at the cast:) We open
in a week. The set's not finished... The
cast is a bunch of clumsy goats -- every
kick ball change would make Bob Fosse dig
himself out of the earth, so he could
have a heart attack again.


                    I'm sorry... I'll get it right.


                    None of you will ever get it right! Which
is why, I quit.

          He throws down his script. The Cast is stunned.


                    And with that, he exits stage right...
end scene.








          And, on his own cue... he exits stage right, in a huff.
The entire cast looks to Todd, fuming.

          Shane jumps up from his hiding place, startling
everybody. Everyone steps back. Todd is terrified.

          Shane kneels down beside Todd. He closes his eyes, and
begins rubbing his hands together like Mr. Miyagi.


                    You gonna fix him?


                    No. My hands are freezing.

          Shane grabs Todd's ankle hard and unceremoniously CRACKS
it, and yanks him to his feet.


                    I'm not going to quit. I hate wresting...


                    AT EASE. (Todd shuts up) Would you
listen, just once? Look, I don't know a
hell of a lot about this kinda stuff,
but... You're good. A lot to learn, but
with hard work, discipline -- you could
make a go of this.


                    ... but what about Murney?


                    That guy's an idiot.

          Todd smiles, relieved. They sit on the edge of the stage.


                    "Sound of Music" is a great show. My dad
took me to see it when I was a kid.

          Shane smiles wistfully. Todd relaxes.


                    You don't seem like the musical type.


                    Come on. Julie Andrews was hot.


                    What if... girls'll think I'm... weird or
something?






                    You know what girls think is weird?
Wrestling. Men in leotards pinning each
other to the floor? I've never understood
that. Chicks dig guys who can dance.


                    Doesn't matter now anyway... show's
off... it's over.

          Shane looks at the Cast, they look pretty glum as they
pack up their costumes. Todd looks devastated -- only a
moment after Shane saw him happier than ever. Shane
straightens up, grabbing Todd by the shirt collar. BEAT.




          Everyone looks around, they're not sure what to do... off
Shane's glare, they quickly assemble on stage.





          There's some mumbling. Liesl chimes in.


                    We don't have a director...

          Shane shakes his head.


                    No director? I have directed rescue
missions in Afghanistan! I've directed
numerous snatch and grabs in countries
who's names you are not allowed to know.
I have choreographed multi-pronged
amphibious landings and stealth air
attacks!
(full of bravado)
Do you think I have the stomach to whip
this production into shape, or not?

          Everyone nods... Todd looks up at Shane. He smiles.


                    Yes.
















          Shane's patrolling the hallway. He hears Zoe in her
room, BREAKING something, angrily. He peeks in -- just as
Zoe THROWS her cell-phone into the wall, furious.


                    ... What's up?


                           (embarrassed)
Nothing... It's stupid... Scott. I called
him in his room, another girl picked up
the phone. I know it's no big deal. I
don't know why I let it get to me.


                    I don't see what you see in this guy.


                    It's just nice to think someone's
thinking about you, you know?
                                 S

                           (He nods)
It won't happen again.


                    ... No wait! ...What are you gonna do?
You're not gonna hurt him are you?
Promise you won't touch him.


                    Okay. I promise. I won't touch him.

          Shane exits. He turns out the light.



          Shane tucks Lulu into bed.


                    Tell me a story.

          Shane looks at her surprised. He sits on the bed...
Stumped. Then he starts:


                    Okay. Let's see. Once there was a family
of Elves.
                                (MORE)


















                    One day, the little Elf family -- Uh.
Went into the magic forest. To find a
secret gnome... facility, where gnomes
where turning mushrooms into... Uranium.
The elves had to go in and take it out.


                    Why?


                    They were ordered to. By the Elf Unit
commander at Elf station bravo. So --
they waited for cloud cover, and they
came in from the north...

          As Shane finishes the story, he illustrates, setting up
the scene with DOLLS, on Lulu's floor.


                    The Elf Team decided on an L Ambush -- so
three elves formed a base leg and laid
down a heavy suppressive fire on the
gnomes while the others maneuvered around
to the right flank and walked through
finishing off anything left alive... I
mean standing...                    D
                                                         ISSOLVE TO:



          Shane's really into the story. Lulu's fallen asleep.
Shane's eyes are brimming with tears as he finishes:


                    ... And not one Elf got left behind that
day. We got `em all. Even, the teeniest
little elf of all -- Rodriquez.

          Then, from across the hall, Peter WAILS.   Todd pops his
head in the door.


                    You have to do the Panda Dance... or he
won't stop.


                    Oh, c'mon... I can't remember that thing.


                    I'll write it down for you...

          The wails get louder and LOUDER...












          Tyler's asleep. Shane sighs, and whispers to Peter,
reading from Todd's notes:


                    When you're down and low, lower than the
floor. And you ain't got a chance. Don't
make a move `til you're in the groove,
and do the Panda Dance...

          Peter starts bawling. Shane doesn't know what's wrong.
Todd calls from the doorway...


                    You have to do the dance. Like dad used
to do. He made it up for him.

          Shane sighs. He sings again, mortified. He does the dance
as he sings... Shane hops forward three times.
                                 S

                    Just hop three times like a kangaroo --
Sidestep twice, just like the crabs do.

          Peter applauds. Humiliated, Shane crab-walks sideways.


                    Take three steps forward and one step
back... (He does.)



          As Mr. Chun gets his paper, Shane, (Tyler in the
snuggle), hands out bag lunches as the Kids load into the
minivan. Shane turns and catches Mr. Chun, staring.


                    What are you looking at?



          Todd sits in the back of the Minivan, listening to Sound
of Music on his Walkman, Lulu is next to him, with her
Gameboy, Zoe and Peter are half asleep. Shane climbs into
the PASSENGER SEAT. Zoe realizes he's staring at her,
through the mirror.


                    Today you drive.















          The Kids sit bolt upright. They turn to Zoe, terrified.
She gets out in shock, and gets in the driver's seat. The
other Kid's seat belts CLICK loudly.


                    But -- I can't even pass driver's Ed.


                    Exactly.


                    Have you given a driving lesson before?



                     ot in a car, no... but it's a lot like
a Bradley Assault Vehicle.


                    Especially when Zoe's driving.

          The Kids share a dubious look. Zoe backs jerkily out.



          Zoe is super-tense as they drive. Shane is nervous, but
trying not to show it. Lulu and Todd are terrified.


                    Do you know what causes most accidents?
ttention span. The most important thing
is that you keep an absolute focus on...

          Zoe's looking RIGHT at him, not the road.


                    THE ROAD! Don't look at me...


                    What?!?

           he Minivan brakes abruptly at a red light, just as a
semi SCREAMS through the intersection. Shane is shaky.


                    You wanna drive?


                    No. Keep going. I trust you.

          Zoe is surprised. Touched. She pulls out, jerkily.

















          Zoe pulls to the curb, almost tapping a bus's rear
fender. Shane unclenches his teeth.


                    Good. Next lesson, 1500 hours.

          Zoe smiles. And the other Kids all bolt from the car,
terrified. Lulu makes a big show of kissing the ground.


                    Ha ha ha. Very funny.
          T
           hey head into the school.   Shane spots something.

          ANOTHER ANGLE reveals: SCOTT (Zoe's boyfriend), with a
few FRIENDS, laughing, being obnoxious. Shane jumps out
of the car. Before Scott knows what's happened, Shane's
LIFTED him in the air by his backpack. Scott's terrified.


                    I know 437 ways to hurt a man without
touching him. Broken promises lead to
broken legs. Do we understand each other?

          Scott nods, trembling. Shane lets him down and heads into
school.



          Shane (Peter in lap, Tyler in snuggle) keeps an eye on
the Kids at their tables. KIDS boisterously run past.
Suddenly -- Claire BARKS out.




          The kids instantly freeze. Claire strides into view.
She's wearing a cute dress, and a little make-up.


                           (a long, severe stare)
Now... WALK! DOUBLE TIME.

          Chastened, the kids gulp and orderly march away. Shane's
eyes alight, impressed.


                    Wow.   I'm glad I never had you for a CO.



















                           (she coyly smiles)
I've noticed improvement in your troops
lately, too. Noon and none of them have
been called to my office. It's a miracle.
          S
           he sits beside him, and offers him a milk.


                    Buy you a drink, sailor?


                    Thanks.

           hey eat in silence. Shane`s not so good at small talk.
She's waiting for him to say... something.


                    You look nice today.


                    This old thing? Well, you never know who
you're going to run into.

          She smiles. He smiles back... Suddenly, there's a
commotion: Murney is marching Todd towards them, dragging
him by the ear. Principal Claire sighs "not again." In
one move, Shane leaps over the table. Principal Claire
watches him leap:


                    ... Love it when he does that.

          Murney shoves Todd forward.


                    I've had it. I just caught this boy
dancing under the bleachers like some
kind of Bavarian fruitcake.

          Murney gets up in Shane's face.


                    I want this freak outta my school and
into treatment. Somebody needs to give
this punk a talking to...


                    Hey. I'm right here. Talk.
          E
           veryone is shocked that Todd talked back. A hushed
whisper goes through the cafeteria. Murney turns around.











                    You got something to say? Boy?


                    Yeah. Yeah I do. I quit, Murney.

          A hushed "oooh" goes through the Students.


                    Winners never quit, boy. What're you so
scared of, Freak?

          The Students snicker. Todd looks, intimidated. Then:


                    I am not scared. I... I want to sing.

          Silence. No one's sure they heard him right. Todd pulls
out a stack of SOUND OF MUSIC FLYERS and hands them out.
Todd is on the poster in his Rolf costume. Principal
Claire takes one: she laughs, now it all makes sense.


                    I'm in Sound of Music. It opens Friday...


                    A musical? You're blowing off wrestling
for a musical? (to Shane:) This is what
happens when there's no man in the house.


                    There is a man in my house -- me. (Murney
turns:) Let's get one thing clear. I'm
not quitting cause I hate wresting. I'm
quitting because you're a bad coach. You
suck. The whole team wants to quit. I'm
the only one with the guts to do it.
          M
           urney looks over at the Team. They look to the ground
sheepishly, Todd's telling the truth. Murney looks
around, humiliated, furious --


                    So -- you're a tough guy now?

          Murney takes ONE STEP towards Todd -- Shane steps between
them, protecting him.


                    Stay out of this, baby sitter!

          Murney glares at him -- face to face. So calm, it's scary











                    You said you wanted to wrestle. You win.
Let's do it.

          Everyone is watching. Murney did not expect to be called
out. His voice cracks -- then he regains his calm:


                    After school. The Gym. Your ass is mine.

          He storms out. There is a stunned moment -- and then a
mob of Students, and a lot of CUTE GIRLS, swarm Todd,
taking flyers. Shane gives Todd a proud thumbs up.

          A QUICK SERIES OF SHOTS: Of STUDENTS whispering to other
STUDENTS, passing notes: A Kid opens a note -- it reads:
"Murney's getting his ass kicked. 3:00."



          The bleachers are PACKED. Murney struts out onto the mat.
The two fighters begin circling one another. The
Wrestlers scream for Murney. Todd cheers Shane on.
                                 M

                     on, you're about to enter Murney's house
of pain.


                    I'll be sure to lock up when I'm through.

          Murney roars and CHARGES Shane. Shane defensively uses
Murney's momentum to flip him halfway across the mat.
WHAM. Murney lands on his back.

          The Wrestlers mouths drop. Murney, shocked, climbs to his
feet and CHARGES again, Shane side-steps, and sweeps
Murney -- sending him right into the wall, hard.

          Murney bounds to his feet, rushes Shane. Shane DIVES
OVER Murney, grabs onto Murney's waist. Shane's momentum
pulls Murney backwards -- BAM. Murney's shoulders hit the
mat with Shane smiling down on him.

          Todd flops to the mat, raises his hand and SLAPS it down-


                    Pinned!

          Shane stands. Shane throws an arm around Todd, and they
head out. The Wrestling Team huddles around Murney, who's
quietly twitching on the ground, mumbling something.











                    Is he okay?


                    Dislocated nerve, that's all. He'll be
fine in (checking his watch) two months.


                    That was awesome.

          They walk out. The crowd cheers. Claire, too. Shane
                                 S
          smiles at her as he passes. She gives him a thumbs up.


                           (to Todd)
Let's go, Todd. I got my troops waiting.





          Shane marches the Brownies through a FOREST.    He wears
Peter and Tyler in front and rear Snuggles.


                    If you're ever lost in the woods, the
first thing you have to do is find a
source of drinking water! And make sure
it's potable. If you're not sure, boil
it for thirty minutes!

          The girls are loving it, fascinated.


                    You have to eat, right? Well let me tell
you you're not gonna find Girl Scout
cookies out here.


                    We're Brownies.


                    No brownies   either. A lot of roots are
edible. So    is some tree bark. When I
HALO'd into   Rwanda, I lived off the
underground   fern stem for three weeks!

          Shane kicks over a ROCK.    Underneath are crawling BUGS.


                    Insects. They look nasty but they're full
of nutrients that may save your life.





          He scoops up some bugs and EATS them.


                    He's eating Roly-Polies!

          The Brownies are frozen in shock.


                           (mouth full of bugs:)
Wots of pwotien!


          UPBEAT MUSIC kicks in over the following MONTAGE:



          Shane leads the Brownie Troop through Combat exercises.
In unison, the Girls PUNCH, KICK. PUNCH, PUNCH, KICK.
Shane's got Tyler's cradle next to him, in between
punches, in perfect tempo, he reaches out and rocks it.
The Duck watches all this -- fascinated.



          The lot is empty. Shane and Zoe sit in the minivan, Shane
holds a stopwatch. He signals her, she burns rubber, and
races through a slalom of orange cones -- she hits EVERY
ONE -- the wheel hubs are CLOGGED with cones. She skids
to a stop just short of the "Severe Tire Damage" spikes.



          Shane changes Tyler's diaper WITH ONE HAND. In his other
hand he's reading The Brownie Handbook. It's open to a
page that reads "Knot Tying."



          The CAST is assembled on stage, where Shane has set up a
scale model of the set on the floor. He illustrates the
stage directions, by moving around toy army men:
                                 S

                    Okay -- we'll put Von Trapps here, here,
and... here at the top of the stairs. Now
the Nazis are gonna come in, this way --
and the Von Trapp is set...

          He laughs at his own joke... The Kids don't get it.



          Zoe leaps into the minivan through the windows. Zoe peels
out and weaves the cones...


















          she only clips one, it teeters, but doesn't fall. Shane
gives her a signal, she throws it in reverse and drives
the course backwards.



          Lulu, in   her BROWNIE uniform, ties a complicated knot --
we WIDEN   to see she's tying Shane's hands behind his
back, as   the Brownie troop watches. He counts "1,2,3..."
and then   begins wriggling free. They watch closely.



          Shane and Zoe are huddled under the minivan's dashboard.
Shane's showing her the IGNITION WIRES.



          Shane has the Brownies assembled. He's attached SOFA
CUSHIONS to himself. The Brownies attack, mercilessly.



          Shane changes Tyler's diaper RAPID-SPEED.    Hands a blur.



          Todd and "Liesl" work on the You Are Sixteen dance.


                      ... your life little girl, is an empty
page/that men will want to write on...
          T
           odd tries the spinning kick, but blows it, landing hard.
Shane blows a WHISTLE.


                      Why don't we just let the Nazis win
tonight -- huh? Now. From the top --
think of yourself as a gazelle prancing
over the plains. Graceful.

          Todd tries the kick. THUD!    Shane BLOWS the whistle.


                      Gazelle.   Prancing. Graceful.   Again.



          At the end of Peter's crib, Shane performs the "Panda
Dance." Singing and doing all the moves -- he's got it
down, adding a James Brown flourish, now and then.











                    Don't touch that dial sleep for a while --
HEAAAY! And say good night, Peter Panda.

          He does a spin kick. Then he tucks Peter in.


                    Good night, Peter.


                           (going to sleep)
Good night, daddy.

          Shane is so touched, he almost bursts into tears. He
kisses Peter on the forehead.


                    I'm not your daddy, Peter. But sweet
dreams.





          The Brownies sit at their cookie table beside the door.
Across the lot, the Chubby Cub Scouts, at their own
table, see them. The Scouts head towards the Brownies.
                                 U

                    Hey Skeever, what's in a Girl Scout's
pants when she has diarrhea?


                    Brown...

          He stops short, the Brownies have moved into a FORMATION,
ready to strike, Lulu at the front: it's (kind of) scary.


                    Go away and we won't hurt you.

          The Scouts share a look -- they LAUGH. The head Scout
steps forward and grabs Lulu's cookies. In one move, she
spins out of the way and pulls off his neckerchief.


                    Gimme that!

          He grabs the neckerchief, but like lightning, she wraps
it around his arm, tying him. She shoves a cookie in his
mouth.






                    Uh oh. You're gonna have to pay for that.

          The Scout struggles, the Other Scouts are scared.


                    Let go! Let go -- MOMMY!

          She lets him go -- in a FLIP, he lands on the ground
hard. Lulu lets out another "kia!" The Girls move
forward in unison, striking a cool pose.



          Shane shops, wearing the double snuggle. As he's
comparing prices -- he sees, on the security monitor: The
Brownies attacking the Cub Scouts. He smiles, proud.
                                 S

                    That's my troop.



          The Cub Scouts have all been tied with their own bandanas
to the CART CORRAL. Shane comes out of the store, and
catches Lulu, using his "catchphrase."


                    From now on, you do things our way -- no
highway option!

          The Scouts nod, terrified. Shane gives her a stern look,
then LAUGHS.



          Shane drives. The Brownies joyously CHANT a MARCH.


                    I don't care what has been said,
Brownies rock! Full speed ahead!
Give me guff, I'm in your face!
Brownies rule the human race!


                    Sound off!


                    One two! Three four! One TWO THREE FOUR!



          Shane works his way down the hall, checking on the kids:










          - LULU'S ROOM: LULU is asleep.

          - TODD'S ROOM: The door is OPEN -- Shane peers in. Todd
has a SWITCHBLADE. He is practicing with it, clicking it
open, tossing it hand to hand. Off Shane's look:


                    West Side Story auditions in two weeks...

          Shane takes the switch blade, and performs an AMAZING
trick with it, spinning Sit like a pro.


                    It's all in the wrist...

          He heads down to Zoe's room and peaks in -- SHE'S NOT IN
BED. He rushes in -- but she's out on...



          Zoe sits on the railing, she seems sad. Shane approaches.


                    Don't worry.    I'm not gonna jump.


                    What's wrong... Scott?


                     o. Scott's fine. I don't know what you
did, but he's really straightened up.
Flowers, phone calls. ...I've never been
in love like this before.

          Shane nods.


                    How long you been together?


                    A month...


                    That's longer than any relationship I've
ever had.


                    You're okay, Shane. I'm not used to
anyone giving me the benefit of the
doubt. My teachers don't trust me. Mom
doesn't. My dad didn't care about us, he
was never here...





















                           (interrupts her, stern:)
Hey. Your father cared about you very
deeply. He told me you were the greatest
things in his life. That what's bothering
you? Cause -- we can talk about it, if
you want.

          Zoe's eye well up, then she cries. Shane holds her.


                    I miss him so much...

          Shane is a little taken by surprise. Then -- he decides
to answer. He takes his Sfather's MEDAL out of his pocket.


                    This was my dad's. He was the only family
I ever had. Mom left when I was little,
cause dad was always gone. Two years
in... an indisclosable locale. Another
six in... Another indisclosable locale. I
didn't really have a home, so I went to
military school -- then one day my mom
got the letter. No more dad.

          He looks at the Medal.


                    I always wanted to be just like him. I'm
starting to realize, I never really knew
him. I don't know if I'm like him or not.


                    That's horrible, Shane.


                    The hardest part was living without any
details...why? How? Where? I always
wondered if he thought about me.


                    Me too.   So how did you get through it?


                    You could say I just shut down my
emotions. I turned off all feelings and
dedicated myself to becoming the perfect
soldier.


                    I never even got to say good bye.










          A tear runs down Zoe's face. She throws her arms around
Shane. The phone rings. Shane answers it.






           ulie's on the other end.


                    The red tape is cleared up, we're on the
first plane in the morning.



          Zoe runs down the hall, telling the family:


                    Mommy's coming home! Mommy's coming home!

          Everyone wakes up, happy, sleepy!


                    When?


                    Tomorrow morning!


                    Mama!

          Excited, the kids are all abuzz, talking excitedly.



          He's left alone.



          The house is dark. Shane sits in a lawn chair, scoping
the area with NIGHT VISION GOGGLES ON. Gary sits in the
next chair. Shane sighs morosely.


                    Just another assignment. No reason for
personal attachments.

          Shane takes a sip out of a juice box. He pets the Duck.


                    Hey Gary, your wings aren't clipped. How
come you don't fly away?
(pause)
                                 (MORE)























                    I guess you've got it good.    Kids to play
with. Three squares a day.

           he Duck stares, unblinking.


                    All quiet on the western front. I guess I
better fix that Playroom window.
          S
           hane rises.



           hane turns the light on. Gary follows Shane as he looks
for tool. Suddenly, the Duck starts quacking... Shane
turns. Gary's foot is caught in a grate.


                    What happened, Gary?

          Shane gets down on his hands and knees and gently pries
Gary's foot from the grate. Shane is about to stand when
something below catches his eye.

          Shane pulls out a pen flashlight, shines it down the
grate... we see a CRANK WHEEL.


                    What do you suppose this is?

          Shane tugs at the grate until it pops off. Shane grips
the valve and tries turning it. Nothing. He tries harder,
muscles rippling, and then it gives... The wheel spins.

           he floor opens, revealing a CIRCULAR STAIRCASE, leading
below the garage. Shane steps down it...



          There's a small room, and a hall leading to a STEEL DOOR.
It's solid and inscrutable. No hinges or cracks. The only
break in its surface is a strange, TWO-PRONGED KEYHOLE.
Shane looks on stunned...





          Shane's at the Steel Door. He has high-tech tools laid
out in front of him. He's been trying, unsuccessfully, to
crack the lock all night. The Kids are watching his
progress, Lulu hands him a tool. Shane dials a phone.



















          We pan up from the WHITE "US GOV" license plates to Bill
at the wheel. Julie sits beside him. Bill's cell phone
rings, he answers it.


                    Sir! Excellent news. I think I found
                    GHOST.

          Bill reacts, excited.


                    ... Do you have it?


                    No. It's in a steel vault. I've been
trying all night, can't crack it, sir.


                           (remaining calm)
Good! Good work. Okay, don't do
anything further. We'll be there shortly
-- don't do anything `til I get there.





          Shane smiles, pleased, and hangs up. Then we slowly MOVE
UP. Away from Shane... towards the neighbor's house.
          W
           e PUSH INTO the house. Through a window... revealing
the Korean neighbors standing in the dark. Silently
spying on Shane. An ominous pause.









                    One things for sure. After we turn this
in to my CO, whoever's been bothering you
guys won't be bothering you anymore.

          Everyone reacts happily, relieved.   Except for -- Lulu.
She looks stricken.


                    What's wrong, Lulu? You should be happy.











                    But, Shane -- does that mean you'll have
to go?



          He goes silent.    Tongue-tied, he has no answer.


                    You guys better get ready.    Your mom
should be home soon.





          Bill's Sedan pulls up.    Julie and Bill hop out.



          Julie opens the door, comes into the dark hall. Bill is
carrying her suitcases.


                    I had a fight with Zoe when I left, so
they probably trashed the place...

          She trails off...


                    What's wrong?

          They listen -- they hear, in the next room, Kids singing
a beautiful, a capella version of The Hills are Alive
(with The Sound of Music). She turns on the lights --
what she sees makes her drop her luggage, in shock.
          J
          JULIE'S P.O.V.: The house is spotless. The rug is
vacuumed. The fish tank is clear, filled with healthy
          TROPICAL FISH.


                           (singing, a capella)
... with songs they have sung, for a
thousand years...

          Dumb-struck, Julie goes to the...



          The kitchen is sparkling clean, no dishes in the sink.
She sees, attached to the fridge with magnets: A flyer
for Sound of Music, featuring Todd.















          JULIE almost faints. Bill steadies her. She staggers
to...



          Shane and the Kids are holding up a home-made sign:
WELCOME HOME, MOM! Todd pushes STOP on a CD player: The
Sound of Music stops.

          Zoe is in a conservative dress, Todd a button down and
khakis: barely recognizable. Lulu has bows in her hair.
Peter is fresh faced, smiling, Tyler is asleep: a picture-
perfect family.


                    Welcome home, mom.

          Julie starts bawling. The Kids rush forward and hug her.
Across the room, Shane sees Bill enter. Shane stiffens
and salutes proudly.   S
                                   SHANE
                    Captain.


                           (he smiles wryly, then
salutes back)
Good job, Lieutenant.



          Shane leads Bill inside. Bill holds the pronged key.


                    I'm really proud of you, Shane. I'm
giving you your choice of assignment,
anywhere you want. You just name it.


                    That's kind of you, Sir...
pause)
But I'll have to think about it.

          Bill stops, surprised.   Shane continues, a bit reluctant.


                    Sir, all I've never known is the
military. At nine years old my father
put me in cadet school and from there I
never looked back. Don't get me wrong, I
wouldn't trade it for anything and I have
no regrets...
















                    I should hope not.


                    But being with these kids has made me
feel like there's more to life than
taking out your enemy. And I think I
want to explore that some more.

          Suddenly, an ANGRY VOICE.






          Shane and Bill spin, startled.    The CHUNS strides up,
          GUNS DRAWN.


                    Give US THE KEY!


                    Mr. and Mrs. Chun?     They checked out-



                        ands up!

          Compliant, Shane puts his hands behind his head. He
takes a submissive position... Mrs. Chun comes closer,
reaching for Bill's key... Shane shoots Bill a glance...




          Shane SPINS and grabs both guns! He WHACKS the Koreans'
forearms, while SLAMMING their heads together.

           hane takes control! He smiles, relishing a second of
glory -- when suddenly, CRACK! A third gun BUTTS him in
the head.



          Lights out. He turns, startled, and starts to fall.
Disoriented, confused, he looks up as he drops...



          He is losing consciousness. Things are spinning... woozy.











                            (arguing with Bill)
You promised us GHOST months ago!


                     I'm sorry, Mr. Chun. There were delays...

          Shane peers in confusion, then passes out.







          Julie and the Kids are on the floor, tied up. Peter and
Tyler are caged in the play pen. Peter has a JUICE BOX.
The Korean Man (Mr. Chun) secures the room, closing the
window shades. Bill checks the knots binding the
children. They whimper, scared.
                                 L




                     He won't be baby-sitting you anymore.

          He GAGS the kids.    Julie glares, livid.


                     I trusted you. Charles trusted you. So
did the Department of Defense.


                     North Korea pays better.
(to Mr. Chun)
Keep an eye on them. You -- with me.

          Bill GAGS Julie. The Kids are furious. Bill and Mrs. Chun
exit.



          Shane lies unconscious. Bill and Mrs. Chun approach the
steel door. Bill inserts the two-pronged key... and it
CLICKS. The door HUMS, then slides OPEN!

          Inside is a dark corridor.      Bill grins.   They enter...



          Light is at the end.    They anxiously tiptoe, reaching...





          THE VAULT! Spare, bright and white. The floor is
covered with square tiles. At the far end is a LARGE
ELEVATED SAFE. Beside the safe is a red switch, with two
settings: ARMED and DISARMED. It's set on ARMED. The air
is filled with an ominous, low-pitched HUM, like a
monstrous computer. Bill eyes the safe.


                    You bring your stethoscope?


                    No.   But I've got some C4.

          She confidently strides toward the safe -- which sets off
hidden flame-throwers in the walls. A jet blast of FLAME
shoots out! She leaps back just in time, but the shoulder
of her jacket is on fire. Bill pats out the flames with
his own jacket. Chun is Bokay, just missing BOTH eyebrows.


                    Charles never made things easy.

          Mrs. Chun's eyebrows are neatly, completely SINGED OFF.


                    Just... had eyebrows... done.



          Mr. Chun guards the kids, eyeballing them icily.

          Lulu "looks" scared. But behind her back, we reveal her
HANDS untying her ropes! Freed, she hits her panic
button! O.S., BEEPING. Lulu grins hopefully: Shane's
coming! A beat... then Mr. Chun pulls the Tracker from
his pocket. He sneers.


                    Think I'm stupid? Now stop bothering me.

          Lulu frowns, then leans back against Zoe. With a rapid
blur of finger-work, she unties Zoe! Then -- needing a
distraction, she signals Tyler and crosses her eyes.

          Tyler GASPS, horrified -- and SCREAMS HIS LUNGS OUT.

          Chun spins, startled -- and Lulu quickly ROLLS across the
room! She lands against Todd, quickly assuming a fake
bound position, as if she hadn't moved.

          Mr. Chun whirls -- the Kids look innocent. Mr. Chun is
confused for a second: "wasn't he tied to the other one?"




















          BEHIND TODD - Lulu frantically unties Todd's ropes --
it's gonna be close...

          Chun scowls. Skeptical, he steps closer... He leans down
to look at Todd's ropes Z--


                    Now Peter!

          Peter SQUIRTS JUICE into Mr. Chun's face. The Kids use
the distraction: Todd POPS to his feet, then LEAPS into
his SPIN KICK: it connects with Mr. Chun's head.


                    Let's GO!

          All the kids bounce up. They untie Julie, then scoop up
Peter and Tyler. Mr. Chun growls and starts to stagger
up. Lulu lands in Karate stance and calls out:


                    Hi ya!

          The other Kids take off, Mr. Chun looks at Lulu.   Mr.
Chun laughs:


                    That's cute.

           HAM without warning, Lulu SWEEPS Mr. Chun's leg, he
drops to his knees in pain, then, when he's at her level,
she KICKS him right in the nuts. It HURTS.

          Mr. Chun tries to grab her by the wrist, but Lulu EVADES
with her cool, snake-like move. Lulu runs, slamming the
door behind her. Mr. Chun gets up and turns the
doorknob, but the door won't budge...



          Zoe shoves a chair between the door and the opposite
wall, they're trapped inside.



          Mr. Chun punches the door, making a small hole. He
reaches out to knock the chair away but he can't quite
reach. He puts his face up to the hole he's made...
          I


          Todd's outside with a FIRE EXTINGUISHER: he blasts Mrs.
Chun's face.



















          Mr. Chun falls back from the door, his face COATED in
white. He yells out furious!


                    That stuff doesn't hurt.

          He sticks his face out the hole... DONNGGG -- Todd hits
him square in the face with the fire extinguisher ITSELF.



          The family comes scrambling out -- but as Julie exits, a
HAND suddenly GRABS her.




          She SCREAMS. Bill lurches into view, clutching her! The
kids are horrified. They start to run back, but she
urgently gestures --


                    Keep going!     RUN! Go GET HELP!!!

          The kids fret, unsure, then nod and run to the side
garage. Zoe and Todd load the kids into the minivan.


                    Hurry!   C'mon! Buckle up!!



          Bill pulls Julie inside. Mrs. Chun listens to Mr. Chun ON
THE RADIO, speaking in Korean:


                    They're headed for the car!


                    Relax -- I've got the keys, they're not
going anywhere...



          SPARKS FLY as Zoe hot-wires the minivan. She floors it...



           r. Chun comes racing around the house -- as SCREEEECH!
The van suddenly FLOORS out, almost clipping him!


















          Chun falls, as the van PEELS backwards down the driveway,
and 360's. RRRR! It shifts into drive and ROARS away.
Chun hops into Bill's car and races after them.



          Zoe floors it.


                    Omigod!   What are we doing??!


                    Let's look for a cop!



          The sedan GUNS its engine, gaining on them.

           oe runs a yellow. She hits the curb and goes AIRBORNE.
WHOOOOOO! The kids SCREAM, as they sail through the
intersection! The sedan keeps chasing.



          Bill has Julie at gunpoint, leading her to the secret
door. They step past Shane's body, lying on the concrete.


                    How does it work?


                    How does what work?


                    Don't play dumb. It's getting old. I want
to know how to get through the booby
traps. What's the code?


                    I don't know any code -- Charles didn't
tell me about the room...


                    If I knew Charles had hidden it so well,
I wouldn't have killed him so soon. Don't
make me kill you too.

          Julie GASPS, chilled. Then, a CRACKLING of static.    Mrs.
Chun exits the vault, holding a military RADIO.











                    Mr. Bill, my husband has question:


                    I have a clean shot at their tires. It's
                                 B
                    risky, they might wreck...


                    ... Do it.




          Julie goes frantic, emotional.


                    Bill, don't hurt the kids.

          Surprised, everyone looks down.



          They look over -- Shane is standing in the doorway.


                    I know the code. I'll get you in... just
please don't hurt anyone.

           ill eyes him. The men stare down, Bill deciding if he
can trust him. Then -- he clicks "talk" on the radio.


                    Change of plan. Bring them back
unharmed.

          Bill uncuffs Shane.



          The vehicles race, Chun just inches from the kids' tail.
He tries to pass them on the right. It's like a chariot
race, Chun zooming by, half on the sidewalk, to cut them
off!



          Todd scrambles into the back seat. He does something we
can't see, as Zoe drives.


                    What's taking you?






                       Don't wait for me!

          The sedan pulls up beside them. Zoe makes a very lewd
gesture at him. It throws Mr. Chun off for a beat.


                       Now!

          Zoe floors it, Mr. Chun is now face to face with Todd --
who throws a dirty diaper into the his face. Mr. Chun
swerves and almost wrecks. Lulu starts PELTING Mr. Chun
with debris: milk cartons, crayons, orange peels.
                                 M

                       Aah!     HEY --

          Rubbish clobbers him. Exasperated, Mr. Chun ROLLS UP his
window, then POUNDS the gas! Faster! About to pass...

          Zoe looks over. Chun is pointing a gun!             She suddenly
PULLS the emergency brake.



          RRRRRRRR!!    The Van SPINS into a squealing 360.

          Mr. Chun SCREAMS, disoriented, and loses control.

          In the van, Peter laughs.


                       Wheee!

          The Van spins madly. The sedan skids and PLOWS into a
store window. CRASH!! The kids cheer, triumphant.



          Shane scopes out the vault. The walls and ceilings are
covered with high-tech weaponry. Mrs. Chun holds Julie.
Bill waits impatiently. Shane is figuring his options...


                       Anybody got any perfume?          Hair spray...
breath freshener...

          A bewildered beat -- then Julie pulls out a tube of
Binaca. Shane SQUIRTS it, revealing in the mist a myriad
of crisscrossing LASER BEAMS.

          Shane steps forward. He speaks aloud, confidently:





















                    Zoe, Todd, Lulu, Peter, Tyler!

          Bill reacts, puzzled.


                    The key is the kid's names. Watch.

          Shane steps forward - ZAP! The floor tile SHOCKS HIM,
sending him flying backwards. Bill laughs. Shane gets up,
in pain.


                    You think this is a game?!
                                 S

                    But... That was the code! I swear! I saw
Plummer use it on his briefcase.


                    Code or no code, go get it -- now.

           ill cocks his gun. Sweat drips down Shane's face. He
mists the air to see the beams: He steps forward, over
one beam and ducking under another -- he miscalculates: a
BURST OF FLAME blazes from the ceiling like a giant blow
torch, Shane leaps back, landing on his hands and knees.


                    (to Bill) You can't make him do this --
He doesn't have a chance.



          Shane's thinks. He notices a GROOVE carved in the floor,
not quite centered to the room. He feels the Groove.
Something she said...


                           (thinking)
Haven't got a chance.

          Shane feels the Groove in the floor. He thinks. He looks
up at the ceiling (bottom of the first floor).


                           (sings softly to himself)
... When you're down and low, lower than
the floor. And you haven't got a chance.
Don't make a move `til you're in the
groove, and do the Peter Panda Dance.










          Shane LAUGHS sharply. That's the code! He shares a look
with Julie. Bill and Julie share a look -- they have no
idea what he's laughing about.

          Calmness comes to Shane's face. He takes a deep breath,
                                 S
          facing forwards:


                    Just hop three times like a kangaroo --

          He hops forwards three times, fearlessly. NOTHING
HAPPENS. No BOOBY TRAPS are set off.


                    Sidestep twice, just like the crabs do.

          He steps sideway, across two tiles. Again -- NOTHING
HAPPENS. It dawns on Julie what he's doing. Julie smiles,
relieved. Shane he steps forwards, then back:


                    Three steps forward and one step back.

          When he steps back -- A SPRING-LOADED SPIKE launches down
from the ceiling, imbedding itself where he was standing.
Shane is rattled, his focus gone. Until Julie shouts:




          Shane snaps out of it and flops down on his back -- just
in time: FLAMES SHOOT FROM BOTH WALLS right at him. If
he'd been standing, he'd be toast.



          The Minivan blasts through another yellow.


                    Look out Zoe! Rollers!

          There is a POLICE CAR cruising the street ahead of them.
Zoe blows pa