







                               Written by

                               David Hare



          Based on the novel by Bernhard Schlink



          1995. A modern apartment, all cool and glass. MICHAEL BERG is
preparing breakfast, laying the table for two. He is 51, dark-
haired, saturnine. He is doing everything with deliberate
quietness, taking the occasional glance towards the bedroom
to check he's not making too much noise. He is boiling an
egg, which he takes out of boiling water and puts on a
sparkling clean plate.

          MICHAEL puts the yolk-stained egg-cup and plate into the
sink, his breakfast eaten, then, as noiseless as he can,
turns on the tap to run water. The bedroom door opens, and
BRIGITTE comes out, naked. She's attractive, younger. The
credits end.


                    You didn't wake me.


                    You were sleeping.


                    You let me sleep because you can't
bear to have breakfast with me.

          It's half-serious. MICHAEL doesn't react.


                    Nothing could be further from the
truth. I boiled you an egg. See?

          MICHAEL produces a second boiled egg in a cup, seemingly from
nowhere, like a magician, and puts it on the table.


                    I'd hardly have boiled you an egg
if I didn't want to see you. Tea or
coffee?

          BRIGITTE has re-appeared from the bedroom, now in a dressing
gown. She's still half-serious.


                    Does any woman ever stay long
enough to find out what the hell
goes on in your head?

          MICHAEL smiles to himself.


                    What are you doing tonight?






                    I'm seeing my daughter.


                    Your daughter? You've kept very
quiet about her.


                    Have I? She's been abroad for a
year. Did you say tea?



          MICHAEL kisses BRIGITTE on the cheek as she departs.


                    I'm going. Give my love to your
daughter.

          He closes the door, then turns to the open door of the
bedroom. He looks at the mess of last night's love-making.
Then he goes to the window and looks out. A yellow U-Bahn
goes by.



          December 1958. MICHAEL, now 15, is sitting on a tram. He is
in a well-cut suit he's inherited, ill-fitting, with two-tone
shoes and tangled mop of hair. Sweat breaks out all over his
face. A WOMAN is staring at him. He's plainly feeling ill.



          1995. MICHAEL stands at the window, looking out.



          1958. Impulsively MICHAEL gets up, rings the bell and gets
off at the next stop.



          1995. MICHAEL closes the window.



          1958. It has come on to rain. MICHAEL is walking along the
street, looking more and more sickly. There is an archway
leading to a courtyard, and impulsively he darts inside to
get out of the rain. He begins to vomit. Opposite him is a
wood workshop open to the yard. A uniformed TRAM CONDUCTRESS
walks past.




          MICHAEL'S body is turned away, his face invisible, his hand
over his mouth. She puts down her ticket machine on the
pavement and seizes him by the arm.


                    Hey. Hey!

          HANNA SCHMITZ has ash-blonde hair and is in her mid-thirties.
She disappears. He's sick again. She reappears with a bucket
of water to sluice down the pavement. She wipes his face down
with a wet cloth. Then she fills another bucket.


                    Hey, kid. Hey.


                    I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

          Effortlessly, HANNA takes MICHAEL in her arms. She holds his
head against her breasts. MICHAEL buries himself and slowly
he stops sobbing. Then he lifts his head.


                    Where do you live?



          HANNA and MICHAEL walk at a fair pace along a street, dotted
with the scaffolding of new building. HANNA is carrying his
satchel, she is pulling him by the arm.



          They come up the road. It is now snowing. MICHAEL stops
outside his block, as if nervous she might come in.


                    It's here. I'll be fine now. Thank
you.


                    Look after yourself.

          MICHAEL smiles `Thank you' and goes in. HANNA is left alone.
She looks round, frowning, then sets off, stopping
uncertainly at the crossroads to check for the way she came.
MICHAEL turns and watches, curious at her indecision.



          CARLA BERG is at the stove in the kitchen. She takes dinner
through for the BERG family, at a round table in a
traditional apartment, under a five-candled brass chandelier.




          MICHAEL'S father, PETER, is a balding, abstracted man, eating
in oppressive silence. Next to him, his older brother THOMAS,
18, his older sister, ANGELA, and his younger sister, EMILY.
MICHAEL has his book in front of him, not touching his food.


                    I'm worried about him. He looks
terrible.


                    The boy's saying he doesn't need a
doctor.


                    He does.


                    I don't need a doctor.


                    Good then.

          CARLA looks reproachful.


                    Peter.


                    We're not going to argue about
this. People have to take
responsibility for their own lives.



          MICHAEL is lying in a single bed, his face violently
inflamed. CARLA is with the DOCTOR, a much older man.


                    Remind me, how old are you now?


                    Michael's fifteen.


                    It's scarlet fever. He'll be in bed
for several months. At least.

          MICHAEL turns into the pillow, a wet patch beneath his head.
Delusional with fever, he senses a presence at the door. He
turns. It's EMILY. But at once CARLA's arm pulls her away.


                    Keep away. He's contagious.





          They vanish. The door closes. In the corridor the DOCTOR is
heard.


                    Burn the sheets. Complete
isolation. And three months is the
minimum.



          1959. A sunny day in March. MICHAEL's bed has been moved
beside open windows so he can profit from the weak sun. He is
sitting up, working on his stamp collection. CARLA is moving
round behind him, tidying the room.


                    How are you feeling?


                    Better. By the way, I meant to tell
you, the day I got ill... a woman
helped me. A woman in the street.


                    She helped you?


                    Yes. She brought me home.


                    Do you have her address?



          MICHAEL is standing holding a small bunch of flowers. He is
looking puzzled at a row of bells with numbers only. The
woodyard is busy. WORKMEN come out of the building.



          MICHAEL comes up the stairwell, once grand, now in decay -
green linoleum and faded red paint. The sound of a
sentimental song at the open door of a small apartment.
Inside, HANNA is ironing in a sleeveless smock, blue with red
flowers. Her hair is fastened in a clip. She looks at him a
moment.


                    Come in.







          The flat is without decoration, an enfilade of small rooms. A
stove, a sink, a tub, a boiler, a table, a few wooden chairs.
There is no window, just a balcony door to let light into the
room. HANNA carries on ironing.


                    I brought you these flowers. To say
thank you.


                    Put them down there.

          MICHAEL puts them beside the sink. HANNA has a blanket and a
cloth over the table : nothing disturbs her rhythm, as she
irons one piece of laundry after another, then folds it and
puts it over one of the chairs.


                    I would have come earlier, but I've
been in bed for three months.


                    You're better now?


                    Thank you.


                    Have you always been weak?


                    Oh no. I'd never been ill before.
It's incredibly boring. There's
nothing to do. I couldn't even be
bothered to read.

          HANNA carries on ironing. He is becoming as comfortable with
the silence as she is. She starts ironing a pair of knickers.
He watches her bare arms moving back and forth. She looks
broad-planed, strong. She is at peace with being watched. She
puts one pair of knickers down, then does another. Then she
upends the iron.


                    I have to go to work. I'll walk
with you. Wait in the hall while I
change.

          MICHAEL goes out into the hall. The kitchen door is slightly
open. HANNA takes off her smock and stands in a green slip.
Her stockings are hanging over the back of a chair.




          She picks one up, rolls it, smooths it up over her calf and
knee, then attaches it to her suspender. She reaches for the
other. The flesh is bare between her legs. MICHAEL watches,
riveted. HANNA seems oblivious. But as she is about to put
the second stocking on, she looks at him. She drops her
dress, and straightens, holding her stare. In response, he
blushes, then panics and runs out of the flat. The door
slams.



          MICHAEL runs down the stairs in terror and shame, and out the
front door.



          The WORKMEN look up, curious, as MICHAEL flies by, slamming
the outer door.



          MICHAEL is lying in bed. He looks up at the sound of a tram
going by outside.



          The tram making its way along the quiet street.



          MICHAEL gets out of bed and quickly gets dressed.



          MICHAEL, reading a book, watches unobserved, fascinated as
HANNA collects tickets. She calls out the name of the next
stop. She doesn't see him as she works.



          MICHAEL is standing on the other side   of the street from
HANNA'S courtyard. He is in two minds   about whether to go in.
The WOODWORKERS are loading a van. He   waits for them to
finish before he slips in through the   archway, making his way
to the stairs.



          MICHAEL is sitting on the steps of the first landing. Then,
as if from nowhere, HANNA is suddenly standing behind him, in
uniform, carrying a box of coal in one hand, a scuttle in the
other. She looks tired but not surprised to see him.






                    There are two more buckets
downstairs. You can fill them and
bring them up.

          HANNA walks straight past him. For a moment he tenses as if
there might be some contact. But she goes by.



          MICHAEL opens the door. He turns on a dim light. There is a
flight of wooden stairs into the murk of a huge pile of coke,
poured in from the street. He goes down to the bottom, and
picks up a bucket. He digs in to the coke, and at once it
comes tumbling down on him in a cloud of dust.



          HANNA is at the kitchen table, drinking a glass of milk. She
has taken off her jacket and loosened her tie. MICHAEL comes
in with the two buckets of coal, his face and clothes filthy.
She roars with laughter, full-throated.


                    You look ridiculous, look at you,
kid.

          MICHAEL sees himself in the mirror, but she has already got
up, going towards the tub in the corner of the kitchen.


                    You can't go home like that. Give
me your clothes, I'll run you a
bath.

          HANNA opens the tap. There's a boiler, and steaming hot water
comes out. MICHAEL takes off his sweater, then stops.


                    What, do you always take a bath in
your trousers?

          HANNA takes his sweater and goes to open the balcony door. He
undresses. She puts his sweater on the balcony rail.


                    It's all right, I won't look.

          On the contrary, she turns and walks straight towards him.
MICHAEL is naked. HANNA takes his clothes from the chair. He
gets into the bath. She goes to the balcony. In the bath, he
submerges himself. HANNA goes out and shakes his clothes out
in the open air.




          When he comes up from under the water, she is laying his
clothes back on the chair. She picks up the shampoo and hands
it to him.


                    Wash your hair, I'll get you a
towel.

          MICHAEL washes his hair, then submerges again. When he comes
back up, HANNA is holding out a large towel. He gets out,
turning away to hide his erection. From behind, she wraps his
body and rubs him dry. Then she lets the towel fall. She puts
her body against his back, and he realises she's naked. He
turns and faces her.


                    So. That's why you came back.

          MICHAEL looks at her, awed.


                    You're so incredibly beautiful.


                    Now, kid, you know that's not true.

          At once she puts her arms round him and they kiss. MICHAEL
goes down onto the floor, HANNA on top of him. All the time,
she's staring into his eyes. He can't take it. He closes his
eyes and, about to come, begins to scream. She puts her hand
over his mouth to smother the noise.



          The family is half-way through their meal. MICHAEL is sitting
watching them eat, thinking about his lovemaking with HANNA.


                    You've inconvenienced your mother.


                    How many more times? I've said I'm
sorry.


                    You scared her.


                    It's hardly my fault, I got lost,
that's all. That's why I was late.
Can I have some more?

          He reaches for more stew. THOMAS goes on eating, a look of
contempt on his face, too superior to engage in this.






                    How can anyone get lost in their
own home town?


                    The doctor told me I had to take
walks.


                    So?


                    I meant to head for the castle, I
ended up at the sports-field.


                    They're in opposite directions.


                    It's none of your business.


                    He's lying.


                    He's not lying. Michael never lies.

          CARLA smiles benignly. EMILY knows she's right. They all eat
on for a few moments.


                    Dad, I've decided, I want to go
back to school tomorrow.


                    The doctor says you need another
three weeks.


                    Well I'm going.


                    Peter?


                    If he wants to go back, then he
must.

          MICHAEL can't breathe, as if some decisive moment in his life
has been reached. PETER is looking at him, seeming to know
what's going on.







          A massive brownstone building. The whole SCHOOL is coming
out, but MICHAEL is first, in a desperate hurry, waving
goodbye to his friends and running quickly away.



          MICHAEL comes quickly up the stairs. The door of HANNA'S
apartment is ajar. He pushes it open.



          HANNA is at the sink. MICHAEL comes in, precipitate, tearing
off his clothes and embracing her at the same time. He drops
his trousers and lifts her onto the sink. He comes in about
twenty seconds. He stands sweating.


                    All right, kid, it's not just about
you.



          They are on the bed. He is lying underneath her. HANNA leads
his hands to her face, then down her body. She begins to
move, and in response, he moves too. He watches awed as she
comes.



          HANNA has fallen asleep on MICHAEL'S chest. He is awake,
looking at the birthmark on her left shoulder. The sound of
the wood yard below. He kisses the birthmark. She stirs.


                    What's your name?

          She opens her eyes. A look of suspicion.


                    What?


                    Your name.


                    Why do you want to know?


                    I've been here three times. You
haven't told me your name.





          MICHAEL waits a moment.


                    It's Hanna. What's yours, kid?


                    Michael.


                    Michael. Hmm. So I'm with a
Michael.

          HANNA smiles, as if there were something funny about it.


                    `Hanna'.



          A TEACHER, in his sixties, has scrawled the words `Odysseus',
`Hamlet' and `Faust' on the blackboard. The class of BOYS is
attentive. Next to him, his friend HOLGER SCHLUTER. Across
the way, RUDOLF.


                    The notion of secrecy is central to
Western literature. You may say the
whole idea of character in fiction
is defined by people holding
specific information which for
various reasons - sometimes
perverse, sometimes noble - they
are determined not to disclose.

          MICHAEL looks content. The bell goes.



          The BOYS come pouring out cheerfully into the corridor and
head to the next classroom. MICHAEL'S demeanour has changed.
There's a knowingness, a swagger, a confidence which is new.
MICHAEL lingers for a moment, then slopes off in the opposite
direction, alone.



          MICHAEL comes out the back door of the school, unobserved,
climbs over the railings and starts to run down the street.



          Later. Dark. MICHAEL is almost asleep, HANNA awake.






                    You never tell me what you've been
studying.


                    Studying?


                    At school. Do you learn languages?


                    Yes.


                    What languages?


                    Latin.


                    Say something in Latin.


                    Oh...

          MICHAEL thinks a moment.


                    Quo, quo scelesti ruitis? Aut cur
dexteris aptantur enses conditi?

          MICHAEL smiles slightly.


                    It's Horace.


                    It's wonderful.


                    Do you want some Greek?

          MICHAEL grins, pleased to be able to do something. He goes
and gets his satchel. HANNA turns on a light.


                    Oi men ippeon stroton oi de pesedon
oi da naon phais epi gan malainan
emmenai kalliston, ego de ken otto
tis eratai.


                    It's beautiful.






                    How can you tell? How do you know
when you've no idea what it means?

          HANNA looks at him a moment.


                    What about in German?


                    In German?


                    Do you have anything?


                    Well, I'm writing an essay. It's
about a play. By a writer called
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Perhaps
you've heard of him?

          HANNA makes no reaction.


                    The play's called Emilia Galotti.


                    Have you got it?

          MICHAEL reaches down to the satchel and pulls out a book.


                    Here. You can read it.


                    I'd rather listen to you.

          There is a silence as MICHAEL absorbs the idea.


                    All right. I'm not very good.

          MICHAEL grins, embarrassed, then opens the book.


                    Act One. Scene One. The setting :
one of the prince's chambers.
Prince - "Complaints, nothing but
complaints, petitions, nothing but
petitions. For goodness' sake, just
imagine that people actually envy
us."







          Later. They are in the bath together. HANNA takes a piece of
soap and runs it lovingly down his cheek. Then she passes the
soap across his stomach.


                       You're good at it, aren't you?


                       Good at what?


                       Reading.

          He smiles.


                       Why are you smiling?


                       Because I didn't think I was good
at anything.



          MICHAEL is playing handball with terrific physical
confidence. A couple of bruising physical encounters. HOLGER,
RUDOLF and MICHAEL all laugh. The whistle blows. Game over.



          An empty tram moving through the eerie early morning streets.
MICHAEL appears walking alongside it and gets on.



          MICHAEL is sitting in the second carriage. He looks up. The
CONDUCTRESS is HANNA. At first, she does not notice him.
MICHAEL watches, waiting to be noticed. She turns round and
looks at him. He smiles in greeting but she makes no
acknowledgement at all. She turns away. He frowns,
bewildered.



          The tram is heading out of town.



          HANNA is now talking animatedly to the DRIVER. They are
getting on very well, laughing together and chatting. MICHAEL
is still by himself in the second carriage, looking foolish.







          The tram comes to a halt and PASSENGERS get on.



          HANNA is now in the busy second carriage, collecting tickets.
MICHAEL looks up expectantly. But as he holds up his ticket,
HANNA makes no reaction except to clip it. She turns away
without speaking. The tram comes to a halt again, and
MICHAEL, humiliated, bolts for the door.



          MICHAEL watches the tram disappears up the hill. He looks
around, lost, in the middle of nowhere. A tractor goes by,
WORKERS heading to the fields. MICHAEL sets off to walk back
to town.



          MICHAEL is on the stairs as HANNA comes up, in her uniform.


                    What was all that about?

          HANNA lets herself in, saying nothing.



          HANNA has gone in to put down her things at the kitchen
table. MICHAEL follows, desperate.


                    I got up - at 4.30 - specially -
it's the first day of the holidays,
I'd been planning to surprise you -


                    Poor little baby. Got up at four
thirty - and on your holidays too.


                    What is this? I was on your tram!
You totally ignored me! What do you
think I was doing? Why the hell do
you think I was there?

          MICHAEL has yelled in desperation. HANNA looks him straight
in the eye.






                    I haven't the slightest idea. And
what you do is your business not
mine.

          HANNA turns and moves away.


                    And if you wanted to speak to me, I
was in the first carriage. So why
did you sit in the second?

          HANNA goes to run a bath.


                    And now, thanks very much, I've
been working, I need a bath. Get
out, I'd like to be by myself.


                    I didn't mean to upset you.


                    You don't have the power to upset
me. You don't matter enough to
upset me.

          She takes off her clothes to get in. As soon as she does, he
gets up and goes into the other room. He sits by himself,
miserable. He hears her, bathing. Then finally gets up and
goes back in. She is still in the bath.


                    I don't know what to say. I've
never been with a woman. We've been
together four weeks and I can't
live without you. I can't. Even the
thought of it kills me.

          HANNA looks at him thoughtfully.


                    I sat in the second carriage
because I thought you might kiss
me.


                    Kid, you thought we could make love
in a tram?

          They smile. But MICHAEL has a more urgent question.






                      Is it true what you said? That I
don't matter to you?

          In the bath, she shakes her head.


                      Do you forgive me?

          She nods.


                      Do you love me?

          She looks at him. Then she nods.



          MICHAEL is sitting on the side of the bed. HANNA comes in,
wrapped in a towel.


                      Do you have a book?


                      Oh. Well I do. I took something
with me this morning.


                      What is it?


                      It's another play.

          MICHAEL gets it out of his pocket. HANNA has lain down on the
bed, completely content.


                      We're changing the order we do
things. Read to me first, kid. Then
we make love.

          MICHAEL sits at the foot of the bed and starts to read.


                      Intrigue and Love, a play by
Friedrich Schiller...



          HANNA is baking bread. MICHAEL is on a chair beside her with
a book.






                    The Odyssey by Homer.


                    What's an odyssey?


                    It's a journey. He sets out on a
journey.

          He starts to read.


                    "Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the
man of twists and turns
Driven time and again off course,
once he had plundered
The hallowed heights of Troy.
Many cities of men he saw and
learned their minds,
Many pains he suffered, heartsick
at the open sea,
Fighting to save his life and bring
his comrades home...



          HANNA is in the bath. MICHAEL is reading a Shakespeare sonnet
to her.


                    "And we will some new pleasures
prove of golden sands and crystal
brooks, with silken lights and
silver hooks..."


                    Come here.

          She pulls him into the bath.



          HANNA is sewing. MICHAEL is reading Huckleberry Finn.


                    I poked into the place aways and
encountered a little open patch as
big as a bedroom, all hung around
with vines and found a man lying
there asleep, and by Jinks it was
my old Jim...





          He starts acting out Jim, and the two of them collapse
laughing.



          MICHAEL is at the bottom of the bed. HANNA is lying inside.
He is reading Lady Chatterley's Lover.


                    "Lady Chatterley felt his naked
flesh against her as he came into
her. For a moment he was still
inside her...


                    This is disgusting. Where did you
get this?


                    I borrowed it from someone at
school.


                    You should be ashamed. Go on.



          MICHAEL reads Tin-Tin to HANNA, who is lying on the bed. They
are both looking at the pictures.


                    `Blistering Barnacles and a
thundering typhoon. It is water.'
`But what on earth did you expect
it to be?'


                    Whisky.


                    Whisky! By thunder, whisky.
`Whisky? Come now captain, you
can't be serious.'


                    All right, kid, that's enough for
today.

          They fall back onto the bed.






                    I was wondering, do you think you
could get some time off? Maybe we
could go for a trip.


                    What sort of trip?


                    I'd love to go bicycling. Just for
two days.

          MICHAEL reaches for a book.


                    I've got a guide-book. I've worked
out the route. Look, what do you
think?

          HANNA'S look is so far-away she doesn't seem to hear the
question. Silence. Then :


                    I think you like planning, don't
you?

          She throws the book away and they begin to make love.



          First light. Dawn breaking outside the window. MICHAEL is
working at his desk, the surface covered in stamps, his
collection book open. He picks one with a pyramid on it and
looks at it. Underneath, MICHAEL'S VOICE reading Intrigue and
Love by Schiller.


                    "I'm not frightened. I'm not
frightened of anything. Why should
I be? I welcome obstacles, because
they'll be like mountains I can fly
over to be in your arms. The more I
suffer, the more I'll love...




          Seen from outside, a shop full of stamps. MICHAEL and a STAMP
DEALER with white hair and a moustache. MICHAEL is offering
his pyramid stamp, his gestures becoming desperate as the
STAMP DEALER shakes his head, clearly not giving him as much
as he hopes.




          Then MICHAEL concedes, the DEALER concedes, and a bunch of
notes are handed across. MICHAEL runs exhilarated out into
the street.


                    "Danger will only increase my love,
it will sharpen it, it will give it
spice. I'll be the only angel you
need. On this arm, Luise, you will
go dancing through life. You will
leave life even more beautiful than
you entered it. Heaven will take
you back and look at you and say
`Only one thing can make a soul
complete, and that thing is love.'



          HANNA and MICHAEL are whizzing down a hill together on
bicycles. He has a rucksack. It's a rural paradise - hills on
all sides, a gleaming river below, the sun shining brightly.
She is wearing a blue dress.



          They come to a cafe and sit down outside. They pick up the
menus on the table. A WAITRESS arrives.


                    So what would you like to have?


                    What are you having?


                    You order. I'll have what you have.

          MICHAEL starts giving the order. Next to them are a group of
BOY SCOUTS, who are laughing among themselves.


                    There's sausages, sausages or
sausages. Give it to me, come on,
give it here. Let me have a look.
You always have the same thing.

          They all laugh. HANNA watches them nervously.



          The meal finished, MICHAEL is alone, paying the bill.


                    I hope your mother was happy.






                    Thank you. She enjoyed her meal
very much.

          The WAITRESS goes. HANNA returns from inside. MICHAEL holds
out his arm to her, which she takes. They walk away towards
their bikes. He is smiling. MICHAEL looks round, then dares
to reach across and kiss her on the lips. The WAITRESS
watches.



          They get off their bikes at a small church. MICHAEL stops and
gets out a map and a guide book.


                    Here, let me show you where we're
going.


                    It's OK, kid. I don't want to know.

          The sound of a choir from inside.



          MICHAEL and HANNA enter tentatively to find a choir
rehearsing Bach. It is a traditional German scene - whole
families singing together at the altar. HANNA is transported,
entranced at the sound of the music. MICHAEL watches.



          HANNA is in a river, the water up to her calves, her skirt
tied round her thighs. She is completely absorbed. Then she
looks up, aware of being watched. MICHAEL is sitting with a
notebook.


                    What are you doing?


                    I'm writing a poem. About you.


                    Can I hear it?


                    It's not ready. I'll read it to you
one day.







          1995. MICHAEL, now 51, is standing by his desk. He opens a
drawer. He takes out the recognizable notebook. He opens its
yellowing pages and looks at the poetry. Then flips the
pages, to some handwritten lists - the words `Odyssey',
`Schnitzler', `Chekhov', `Zweig' with numbers beside them.
MICHAEL flaps it shut, puts it back and turns to go out.



          MICHAEL leaves his apartment block. He gets into his black
Mercedes.



          MICHAEL is listening on the radio to the same Bach music they
heard in the church. He drives through the thriving modern
city. Beyond, the huge cranes and gouged-out building sites
of a city under construction.



          MICHAEL swings his car into place. He gets out and heads
across the road, prosperous, purposeful.



          An ASSISTANT meets MICHAEL with his robe which he pulls on as
he walks quickly through an elaborate lobby. GERHARD BADE,
also in his fifties, also robed, falls in step.


                    You all right, Michael?


                    I'm fine.


                    You'd better hurry. You know what
she's like.

          A robed ASSISTANT is waiting outside the door with documents
he hands to MICHAEL. They all go in.



          MICHAEL joins his CLIENT, just seconds before the FEMALE
JUDGE comes in and everyone stands. Silence. The JUDGE looks
at MICHAEL disapprovingly, sensing his lateness. Everyone
sits. MICHAEL sits, thinking back.







          1958. A sheriff's posse of sixteen-year old GIRLS, come
laughing, blushing towards the classroom. One of them is
talking excitedly to the other.


                    I'm just going to pretend I've been
here for years, I'm not going to
behave in any special way.


                    You just wait. You wait and see.

          They smile together and head for the classroom.



          The BOYS are already in place, dotted round, as the GIRLS
come in. There are cries of `Here they come'. Then the
TEACHER comes in.


                    Good morning, ladies. Gentlemen,
please welcome your new fellow-
students, treat them with courtesy,
please.

          Not far from MICHAEL, a GIRL sits across the aisle, virginal
with brown hair, brown summer skin.


                    Hello. My name's Sophie.


                    I'm Michael.

          The TEACHER comes in. The class quietens.



          Later. The TEACHER is in full flow. MICHAEL can't take his
eyes off SOPHIE.


                    Everyone believes that Homer's
subject is homecoming. In fact, The
Odyssey is a book about a journey.
Home is a place you dream of, it's
not a place you ever attain.

          The TEACHER breaks off.






                    Berg, I don't mean to distract you,
but we're meant to studying Homer,
not studying Sophia.

          The whole class cracks up. MICHAEL blushes.



          MICHAEL is riveted as SOPHIE swims fast and lithe through the
water. Around him, YOUNG PEOPLE are lounging round on towels.
It's the social centre. HOLGER and RUDOLF are rubbing their
hair with towels as SOPHIE approaches.


                    Michael the water's fantastic.


                    It's wonderful, isn't it?


                    Wonderful. It's going to be a great
summer.

          MICHAEL looks across to where a group of AMERICANS are
shouting and playing a very loud game of volleyball.


                    Now the Americans have allowed us
back in our own lake.


                    Why are they so loud?


                    You should see their stores. They
have everything.


                    Oh sure. Everything mankind could
ever dream of.


                    You don't like Americans?


                    Just it's more fun without them.

          He looks SOPHIE straight in the eye. There is a sudden
silence, MICHAEL looking straight at SOPHIE. SOPHIE looks
down. Then MICHAEL moves slightly to pack up his stuff.






                    Why do you leave early?


                    He always leaves early.



          MICHAEL is cycling back towards town, a smile on his face.



          MICHAEL flies up the stairs, then goes in. HANNA is sitting
sewing. He kisses her on the cheek as he gets out a book.


                    I'm sorry I'm late. I was held up
at school.

          At once he sits down opposite her. A ritual.


                    The Lady with the Little Dog. By
Anton Chekhov.

          HANNA looks, seeing right through him.


                    "The talk was that a new face had
appeared on the promenade, a lady
with a little dog."



          A huge tram-shed full of empty trams. HANNA is at the end of
the garage, talking to the SUPERVISER, a large man in his
fifties.


                    Schmitz, one moment. We've got good
news for you. Your work is good,
we're going to promote you. To work
with me in the office. It's more
money. Congratulations.

          He moves away. HANNA looks distraught.



          MICHAEL is watching SOPHIE swimming, a look of anxiety in his
eye, when HOLGER touches his shoulder.






                    Get a move on, we're leaving early
today.


                    Why? What for?


                    We're going back to Sophie's. It's
your birthday. We're giving you a
party.

          HOLGER and RUDOLF disappear to get dressed. SOPHIE appears in
her swimming costume.


                    Come on, it's a surprise. We
thought you'd like it. We've been
planning it for weeks.


                    I'm sorry. Really. I promised
someone I'd do something else.

          The others are furious with him. They all go off.



          MICHAEL is cycling towards HANNA'S apartment, his hair wet
from the lake, looking equally unhappy.



          HANNA is sitting unhappily as MICHAEL reads to her. They are
both in a bad mood.


                    Oh kid, kid. Stop.


                    What's wrong?


                    Nothing's wrong. It's nothing.

          HANNA just shrugs. She goes and sits at the table to drink
tea. MICHAEL is irritated.


                    You never ask, you never bother to
ask how I am.






                    You never say.


                    It just happens to be my birthday.
It's my birthday, that's all. In
fact, you've never even asked when
it is.


                    Look if you want a fight, kid...


                    No, I don't want a fight. What's
wrong with you?


                    What business is it of yours?

          She has snapped at him, razor-like.


                    It's always on your terms.
Everything. We do what you want.
It's always what you want. My
friends were giving me a party!


                    Well then why are you here? Go back
to your party. Isn't that what you
want?

          HANNA puts down her cup, angry. She goes into the bedroom and
slams the door. He sits, the magic of the day gone. He gets
up and opens the bedroom door. HANNA is on the bed.


                    And it's always me that has to
apologize.

          Silence. HANNA lets time go by. Then :


                    You don't have to apologize. No-one
has to apologize. No-one can make
you.

          HANNA reaches for a book from beside the bed. She throws it
down on the cover.


                    War and Peace, kid.







          HANNA is on the edge of the bath, running water. She has a
pale blue flowered smock. She is running with sweat. The
smock sticks to her. MICHAEL gets out a book. HANNA drops
lavender oil into the bath. MICHAEL stands in the bath and
she washes his body.



          They are making love on the bed. It's intense. At one point
she moves on top of him. She holds his head between her
hands, as if she would crush the life out of him. Then she
lets go.



          They are both sweating, exhausted. She looks a moment.


                    Now you must go back to your
friends.



          MICHAEL has gone. HANNA washes out milk bottles and empties
them into the sink. Then she picks up her luggage and leaves
the empty apartment.



          MICHAEL is sitting on the pier watching as HOLGER, RUDOLF and
SOPHIE swim competitively out to a pontoon, then turn back,
full of energy and high spirits. MICHAEL watches for a while,
then suddenly he gets up and starts to run away from them
all.


                    Michael. You all right?

          But MICHAEL is running away across the lakeside beach.



          MICHAEL opens the door. He goes in. The apartment is emptied,
the rented furniture in place, all trace of HANNA gone. He
looks round. He looks at the empty bath, the tap above it. He
opens the kitchen cupboards - some coffee, sugar, that's
about it. He goes into the bedroom, the bed stripped bare. He
lies down on the bed.







          MICHAEL lying on the bed, curled up, in his clothes, like a
foetus, asleep.



          The family at breakfast. MICHAEL slips quietly in the main
door, trying to go to his room without being heard. EMILY
runs to look.


                    It's him.

          Sheepishly MICHAEL appears.


                    Where were you last night? What
happened?


                    I stayed at a friend's.


                    Carla.

          PETER looks. He seems to know exactly what's been going on.


                    Get the boy something to eat. I
think we all knew you'd come back
to us eventually.



          MICHAEL is alone in the deserted pool. He is on the jetty. He
takes off his clothes and slips into the water. Just his
head, like a seal's, at one end, just out of the water, quite
still.



          1995. MICHAEL sitting alone, thinking back.



          1958. The sun slants, and for a few seconds the water
dazzles. He slips his head under.



          1995. MICHAEL still sitting thoughtfully by himself in the
empty court. Then he looks up. An ASSISTANT has appeared.






                    Mr Berg. It is eight o'clock. Your
daughter.


                    Thank you.

          He gets up.



          JULIA is already at the table in a chic modern brasserie. She
is a sympathetic young woman of around 23. MICHAEL
approaches. When she sees him, she gets up.


                    I was early.

          MICHAEL leans in and kisses her on the cheek.


                    Julia.

          They're uneasy. She looks a moment, then they sit down.


                    Welcome back.



          Later. They have eaten. They both have big glasses of red
wine. It's more relaxed.


                    So how will you decide?


                    I don't know. I'm happy back in
Berlin, I suppose.


                    You've seen your mother?

          JULIA nods.


                    I wanted to get away. There was
nothing more to it. It was Paris,
but it could have been anywhere.


                    Away from your parents?





          JULIA doesn't answer.


                    I'm aware I was difficult. I wasn't
always open with you. I'm not open
with anyone.


                    I knew you were distant. I'd always
assumed it was my fault.


                    Julia. How wrong can you be?

          JULIA colours, on the verge of tears. Then she looks away.



          They drive through the gleaming streets. It's been raining -
Berlin is glistening. Their voices :


                    I admit it now, I was nervous.


                    I was nervous too. It's silly isn't
it?


                    It is silly.


                    Thank you for dinner.


                    I'll see you very soon.



          MICHAEL lets JULIA out, and is watching her safely to her
door from the car.


                    Good night, Dad.

          MICHAEL suddenly gets out himself.


                    Julia, wait. I want to ask you a
favour.


                    What favour?






                    I want to take you on a trip. I
want to show you something.


                    When?


                    Tomorrow, maybe. Can I pick you up
in the car?

          JULIA doesn't need to say anything.


                    At ten, say.

          JULIA smiles.


                    Then good.

          MICHAEL hugs her, his heart aching with love. JULIA goes in
to her place. MICHAEL is left standing still in the plaza
outside, not moving. Underneath the sound of what follows,
thirty years previously.



          1966. A WOMAN LECTURER has a class of about 75 STUDENTS. From
their hair, their dress, it could only be the 1960s.


                    Those of you for the special
seminar group on The Legal System
in the Third Reich, please stay on
in this room. Professor Rohl will
be here in a moment.

          Nearly all the STUDENTS leave, talking among themselves. Just
eight are left, dotted around the huge room. MICHAEL is one
of them, now 22, in a corduroy jacket and tie. There is a
lull. MICHAEL looks round at the group of oddballs, then
finds ROHL, distinguished, greying, is already in front of
them.


                    Well, we seem to be quite a small
group. A small group and a select
one. Clearly, this is going to be a
unique seminar. Let me start by
thanking those of you who've chosen
to take part. Good for you. A
reading list, gentlemen.
                              (MORE)



                              ROHL (cont'd)
Karl Jaspers, The Question of
German Guilt...

          A calm STUDENT with long hair smiles at MICHAEL. She looks
like Francoise Hardy. She murmurs.


                    And ladies.



          MICHAEL is working alone at his desk, a light on. The door of
his extremely modest student digs is open. MARTHE appears at
the door, silently. He looks up.


                    So this is where you are.


                    Yes. Come in.

          But neither of them move. MARTHE just smiles from the door.


                    You take work seriously.


                    Oh I don't know.


                    You're rather a serious boy.

          MARTHE shrugs slightly.


                    It's how I was brought up. What
about you? Are you serious?


                    You're sure you want to work
tonight?


                    Well I do. But I won't work every
night.


                    See you tomorrow.

          They smile at one another. She goes.







          The seminar group, long-haired, hippyish, is on the train :
PROFESSOR ROHL, with MARTHE, DIETER and a few others. MICHAEL
catches MARTHA'S eye. They smile. Then he opens the window,
cheerful.



          The STUDENTS are having a cigarette in front of the huge
building. Two black vans with barred windows come by,
carrying prisoners. The first one veers close to MICHAEL on
the pavement, then disappears into the inner courtyard. ROHL
smiles at MICHAEL.


                    Why all the police?


                    They're worried about
demonstrators.


                    For or against?


                    Both.



          A courtroom has been improvised inside the town hall. There
are large windows, with milky glass, down the left-hand side.
As ROHL and the STUDENTS arrive, the court is a melee of
PHOTOGRAPHERS, LAWYERS and PUBLIC. The three JUDGES are
already in place, next to six selected CITIZENS. MICHAEL and
the others take places in the gallery


                    All photographers are now asked to
leave.

          The PHOTOGRAPHERS go.


                    The defendants, please.

          From being noisy and chaotic, the court is now silent.


                    The first thing I'm going to do is
hear motions from each of the
defendants' lawyers.
                              (MORE)



                              JUDGE (cont'd)
They're going to be arguing that
there's no reason to keep the
defendants in jail until the
outcome of the forthcoming trial.

          DIETER grins at MICHAEL in anticipation.


                    I am going to take these cases one
by one.

          MICHAEL is leaning down to get stuff out of his briefcase, as
MARTHE shakes a pen which isn't working.


                    Do you want a pen?


                    I've got a pen.

          So MICHAEL doesn't hear as the JUDGE speaks.


                    Hanna Schmitz.

          There is a row of six DEFENDANTS. The fifth woman is HANNA,
her hair tied in a knot, her gaze fixedly into the middle
distance, not looking towards the SPECTATORS. She is wearing
a grey dress with short sleeves. They all sit, sideways to
the gallery. HANNA rises to her feet. The words seem to come
very quietly, across a great distance.


                    Your name is Hanna Schmitz?


                    Yes.

          It is only when the JUDGE repeats the name that MICHAEL looks
up, hearing it for the first time.


                    Can you speak louder please?


                    My name is Hanna Schmitz.

          MICHAEL is rigid, blank, just staring.


                    Thank you. You were born on October
21st, 1922?






                    Yes.


                    At Hermannstadt. And you're now 43
years old?


                    Yes.


                    You joined the SS in 1943?


                    Yes.


                    What was your reason? What was your
reason for joining?

          HANNA doesn't answer.


                    You were working at the Siemens
factory at the time?


                    Yes.


                    You'd recently been offered a
promotion. Why did you prefer to
join the SS?

          HANNA has a DEFENCE COUNSEL, a young man, beside her, who is
about to get up. But the JUDGE forestalls him.


                    I'll re-phrase my question. I'm
trying to ascertain if she joined
the SS freely. Of her own free
will.

          Everyone waits.


                    Well?


                    I heard there were jobs.


                    Go on.






                    I was working at Siemens when I
heard the SS was recruiting.


                    Did you know the kind of work you'd
be expected to do?


                    They were looking for guards. I
applied for a job.

          MICHAEL is intent now, so are the STUDENTS beside him.


                    And you worked first at Auschwitz?


                    Yes.


                    Until 1944. Then you were moved to
a smaller camp near Cracow?


                    Yes.

          ROHL leans into MICHAEL.


                    Are you OK?


                    I'm fine.


                    You then helped move the prisoners
west in the winter of 1944 in the
so-called death marches?



          MICHAEL is hanging out of the window of the train, smoking a
cigarette.



          MICHAEL sits down in his seat. ROHL moves to sit opposite
him.


                    So what did you think?






                    I don't know. It wasn't quite what
I expecting.


                    Wasn't it? In what way? What were
you expecting?

          ROHL is looking at him. MICHAEL doesn't answer.


                    I thought it was exciting.


                    Exciting?


                    Yes.


                    Why? Why did you think it exciting?


                    Because it's justice.



          The train hurtles through the German countryside.



          A student party, in a candle-lit room. MARTHE is singing to a
guitar. It's been going on for hours - the STUDENTS are on
the floor with beer and cigarettes. The front door is open.
DIETER, beer in hand, looks out to the balcony where he can
see MICHAEL bent away from them, all by himself.



          MICHAEL, his arms on the balcony, is smoking, looking out
into the night. His eye lands on a student room in which a
couple are making love.



          The small STUDENT GROUP is now rattling around informally in
the big lecture room.


                    I need to correct an impression.
Dieter said yesterday this was
about justice. But is it?
                              (MORE)



                              ROHL (cont'd)
If it were about justice you might
ask why has it taken so long? The
war ended twenty years ago.
Remember, there've been no
significant trials between
Nuremburg in 1946 and the Auschwitz
trials a couple of years ago.
That's a long gap. What's the
reason for the gap?

          ROHL waits a moment for a STUDENT to answer.


                    I'd have thought it was obvious.


                    Say.


                    Cowardice. It's cowardice, isn't
it? It's bad conscience. It's the
big cover-up.


                    Go on.


                    After the war. The German people
didn't want to look at what they'd
done.


                    Is that right?


                    Because they had too much to hide.
All our parents are liars. All
right, mine are. So it's left to
us, isn't it?


                    How so?


                    Because we're not implicated.


                    Aren't you? Good. So that's all
right then.

          Everyone laughs.






                    No, but seriously, Dieter's right.
My parents, I can't even talk to
them. I don't love them. How could
I? How could anyone love them?
Because they've told themselves so
many lies, they can't remember the
truth, let alone admit it. Isn't
that why we signed up for this
seminar?


                    I don't know. You tell me.


                    Speaking for myself.


                    Michael?


                    I'm not sure any more.

          ROHL is staring at him thoughtfully.


                    What did your father do, Dieter?


                    If you want to know, he was in the
Waffen SS.

          There are some smiles, but DIETER rides over the reaction.


                    That's what I mean, that's what I'm
saying. So were a million other
Germans.


                    That's exactly my point. That's why
it's better not to pretend this is
about justice. Forgive me, nor is
it about getting into an emotional
state. It has no purpose if it's
just the young giving their parents
a bad time.

          There's a silence. That's clearly why some of them are there.


                    So what is it about? What do you
think?






                    Societies think they operate by
something called morality. But they
don't. They operate by something
called law. You're not guilty of
anything merely by working at
Auschwitz. 8,000 people worked at
Auschwitz. Precisely 19 have been
convicted, and only 6 for murder.
To prove murder you have to prove
intent. That's the law. Remember,
the question is never `Was it
wrong?' but `Was it legal?' And not
by our laws, no, by the laws at the
time.

          DIETER frowns, unhappy.


                    But isn't that...


                    What?


                    Narrow?


                    Yes. The law is narrow.

          ROHL looks unapologetic.


                    On the other hand, I suspect people
who kill other people tend to be
aware that it's wrong.



          ROHL is leaning forward, attentive. HANNA is standing,
opposite the JUDGE, who holds up a book called MOTHER &
          DAUGHTER : A STORY OF SURVIVAL.


                    Miss Schmitz, you're familiar with
this book...


                    Yes...


                    Parts of it have already been read
out in court.
                              (MORE)



                              JUDGE (cont'd)
It's an American publication, which
has been translated. It's by a
survivor, a prisoner who survived,
Ilana Mather...


                    Yes I know. I know Ilana Mather.


                    She was in the camp, wasn't she,
when she was a child? She was with
her mother.

          The judge waits. HANNA seems arrogant, defiant.


                    In the book, she describes a
selection process. At the end of
the month's labour, every month,
sixty inmates were selected. They
were picked out to be sent from the
satellite camp back to Auschwitz.
That's right, isn't it?


                    Yes, it's right.


                    And so far, each of your fellow
defendants has specifically denied
being part of that process. Now I'm
going to ask you. Were you part of
it?


                    Yes.

          There is a stir among the other DEFENDANTS and in the court.
They start talking to their LAWYERS.


                    So you helped make the selection?


                    Yes.


                    You admit that? Then tell me, how
did that selection happen?

          HANNA shrugs slightly, as though it were obvious.






                    There were six guards, so we
decided we'd choose ten people
each. That's how we did it - every
month. We'd all choose ten.


                    Are you saying your fellow
defendants took part in the
process?


                    We all did.


                    Even though they've denied it? But
you admit it. You're saying you
took part in the process.

          The other DEFENDANTS stir with animosity, but the JUDGE is
intent, following his own line.


                    Did you not realise you were
sending these women to their
deaths?

          He waits. HANNA nods slightly.


                    Yes but there were new arrivals,
new women were arriving all the
time, so of course we had to move
some of the old ones on.


                    I'm not sure you understand...


                    We couldn't keep everyone. There
wasn't room.

          The JUDGE frowns, genuinely surprised that she doesn't seem
to understand his point.


                    No, but what I'm saying : let me
rephrase : to make room, you were
picking women out and saying `You
you and you have to be sent back to
be killed.'






                    Well, what would you have done?

          HANNA is looking at the JUDGE - a perfectly straight
question. MICHAEL smiles slightly, proud of her. Everyone in
the court waits for the JUDGE to answer. Silence. ROHL is
impassive. But HANNA follows her own thoughts. She quietly
asks herself a question.


                    So should I never have signed up at
Siemens?



          MICHAEL is alone, smoking. On a bench, side by side, are two
women. One is very small, dark, in her sixties. The other is
composed, formidable, elegant, in her thirties. ROSE and
ILANA MATHER. They look up, catching MICHAEL's eye. Then a
CLERK leans in to the younger woman.


                    Ms. Mather, they're ready for you
now.

          The two women go into the court. The door closes.



          MICHAEL is alone in the now-deserted lobby, unwilling to go
back. Then he goes to the door. He opens it a little. The
sound of the trial. He opens the door fully. MICHAEL can see
that it is ILANA who is testifying. The court is
conspicuously packed. Large black-and-white photographs of
the labour camp now dominate the room. MICHAEL comes quietly
into the back of the room as the trial goes on.

          MICHAEL has pushed past a couple of people to sit down near
ROSE who is sitting in the body of the court. He looks across
to the DEFENDANTS. RITA BECKHART, a large older woman, is one
of a couple who isn't bothering to listen.


                    In your book you describe the
process of selection...


                    Yes. You were made to work and
then, when you were no longer any
use to them, then they sent you
back to Auschwitz to be killed.






                    Are there people here today who
made that selection?


                    Yes.


                    I need you to identify them. Can
you please point them out?

          ILANA points with her finger at the DEFENDANTS.


                    Her. And her. And her. And her. And
her. And her.

          The last finger has been to HANNA. MICHAEL watches, but HANNA
does not react.


                    Each of the guards would choose a
certain number of women. Hanna
Schmitz chose differently.


                    In what way differently?


                    She had favourites. Girls, mostly
young. We all remarked on it, she
gave them food and places to sleep.
In the evening, she asked them to
join her. We all thought - well,
you can imagine what we thought.

          HANNA stares back, impassive. MICHAEL watches.


                    Then we found out - she was making
these women read aloud to her. They
were reading to her. At first we
thought this guard, this guard is
more sensitive, she's more human,
she's kinder. Often she chose the
weak, the sick, she picked them
out, she seemed to be protecting
them almost. But then she
dispatched them. Is that kinder?

          HANNA looks back, not apologizing.







          MICHAEL sits alone, head in hands, in despair.



          Now ROSE is testifying. The court is quiet, focused.


                    I want to move on now to the march.
As I understand it, you and your
daughter were marched for many
months.


                    Yes. It was the winter of 1944. Our
camp was closed down, we were told
we had to move on. But the plan
kept changing every day. Women were
dying all around us in the snow.
Half of us died on the march. My
daughter says in the book, less a
death march, more a death gallop.

          MICHAEL looks along the row to where ILANA is now sitting.


                    Please tell us about the night in
the church.

          MICHAEL watches as ROSE looks across to ILANA. ILANA stares
back at her. MICHAEL watches the exchange as ROSE nods, as if
accepting she must go ahead and speak.


                    That night we actually thought we
were lucky because we had a roof
over our heads. We'd arrived in a
village, as always, the guards took
the best quarters, they took the
priest's house. But they let us
sleep in a church. There was a
bombing raid. In the middle of the
night. At first we could only hear
the fire, it was in the steeple.
Then we could see burning beams,
and they began to crash to the
floor. Everyone rushed, rushed to
the doors. But the doors had been
locked on the outside.






                       The church burned down? Nobody came
to open the doors? Is that right?


                       Nobody.


                       Even though you were all burning to
death?

          ROSE nods.


                       How many people were killed?


                       Everyone was killed.


                       How did you survive?


                       I needed to get away from the other
women. Because they were panicking,
they were screaming. I couldn't
stand it. I couldn't stand their
screaming. I was more frightened of
the other women than I was of the
fire. So I too my daughter and led
her to the upper floor. I can't
defend what I did. It's impossible
to defend. I took Ilana in my arms
and I led her towards the fire.
There was a small gallery at the
side of the church on the upper
level. It saved our lives. The
gallery didn't burn.

          ROSE turns, in tears, to look at ILANA.


                       Thank you. I want to thank you for
coming to this country today to
testify.



          The group is back in the big hall. But the atmosphere is
grim. It's a while before DIETER speaks.






                    I don't know. I don't know what
we're doing any more.


                    Don't you?


                    You keep telling us to think like
lawyers, but there's something
disgusting about this.

          ROHL is very still, like an analyst who is finally leading
his patient to the heart of things.


                    How so?


                    This didn't happen to the Germans.
It happened to the Jews.

          Everyone is shocked at his violent passion.


                    What are we trying to do?


                    We're trying to understand.


                    Six women locked    three hundred Jews
in a church, and    let them burn.
What is there to    understand? Tell
me, I'm asking :    what is there to
understand?

          MICHAEL can't answer. DIETER gets up, outraged now.


                    I started out believing in this
trial, I thought it was great, now
I think it's just a diversion.


                    Yes? Diversion from what?


                    You choose six women, you put them
on trial, you say `They were the
evil ones, they were the guilty
ones'. Brilliant!
                              (MORE)



                              DIETER (cont'd)
Because one of the victims happened
to write a book! That's why they're
on trial and nobody else. Do you
know how many camps there were in
Europe?

          DIETER turns, furious.


                    People go on about how much did
everyone know? `Who knew?' `What
did they know?' That isn't the
question. The question is `How
could you let it happen?' And -
better - `Why didn't you kill
yourself when you found out?'

          One of the group walks out.


                    Thousands! That's how many. There
were thousands of camps. Everyone
knew.

          DIETER'S passion is so great that everyone is shaken.


                    Look at that woman...


                    Which woman?


                    The woman you're always staring at.
I'm sorry but you are.

          MICHAEL is white. The atmosphere is electric.


                    I don't know which woman you mean.


                    You know what I'd do? Put the gun
in my hand, I'd shoot her myself.



          MICHAEL walks along an empty wooded road, miles from
anywhere. The sun is shining through the trees behind him.







          The wire fence of a concentration camp, deserted. MICHAEL,
with a back-pack, goes alone through the metal gate. MICHAEL
walks among the deserted empty huts.



          Inside one of the huts, MICHAEL is by himself staring at a
line of empty beds. He moves on, overwhelmed, lost. He passes
through the showers. Then he comes to a room with vast metal
cages on either side. In the cages, the countless dusty shoes
of the exterminated.



          MICHAEL opens a door and walks into a room with a line of gas
ovens. He walks past them. Then he stands beside them, his
head down.



          HANNA is standing being examined by the JUDGE. Large
photographs and maps of the village, with the lay-out of the
church, are now on display.


                    Why did you not unlock the doors?

          He waits. HANNA doesn't reply.


                    Why did you not unlock the doors?

          The JUDGE turns to the row of DEFENDANTS.


                    I've asked all of you and I'm
getting no answer. Two of the
victims are in this court. They
deserve an answer.

          ILANA and ROSE are not far away from MICHAEL and the
STUDENTS. The JUDGE puts down a bound handwritten document.


                    Here, this is the SS report. You
all have copies.

          There is a flurry of paperwork among the DEFENDANTS and
LAWYERS as they turn to their copies.






                    This is the report which was
written, approved and signed by all
of you immediately after the event.
In the written report, you all
claim you didn't even know about
the fire until after it happened.
But that isn't true, is it?

          The JUDGE waits.


                    Well? It isn't true.


                    I don't know what you're asking.


                    The first thing I'm asking is, why
didn't you unlock the doors?

          HANNA takes a look to the other DEFENDANTS. For the first
time her poise is crumbling.


                    Obviously. For the obvious reason.
We couldn't.


                    Why? Why couldn't you?


                    We were guards. Our job was to
guard the prisoners. We couldn't
just let them escape.


                    I see. And if they escaped, then
you'd be blamed, you'd be charged,
you might even be executed?


                    No.


                    Well then?

          The JUDGE waits.


                    If we opened the doors, then there
would have been chaos. How could we
have restored order?
                              (MORE)



                              HANNA (cont'd)
It happened so fast. It was
snowing. The bombs - There were
flames all over the village. Then
the screaming began. It got worse
and worse. And if they'd all come
rushing out, we couldn't just let
them escape. We couldn't. We were
responsible for them.


                    So you did know what was happening?
You did know? You made a choice.
You let them die rather than risk
letting them escape.

          HANNA can't answer - she has no answer.


                    The other defendants have made an
allegation against you. Have you
heard this allegation?

          HANNA does not reply.


                    They say you were in charge.


                    It isn't true. I was just one of
the guards.

          The other DEFENDANTS interrupt to call out `She was in
charge'.


                    Did you write the report?


                    No. No. We all discussed what to
say. We all wrote it together.


                    She wrote it! She wrote the report.
She was in charge.


                    Is that true?


                    No. And I didn't write the report.
Does it matter who did?

          RITA BECKHART has called out from her place. The JUDGE looks
at HANNA a moment.






                    I need to see a sample of your
handwriting.


                    My handwriting?


                    Yes. I need to establish who wrote
the report.

          At once HANNA'S COUNSEL rises.


                    I'm sorry, but I really don't see
how that's appropriate. Nearly
twenty years have gone by.


                    Somebody take her this piece of
paper.


                    Are you really going to compare
handwriting of twenty years ago,
with handwriting of today?


                    Give her the paper. Counsel,
approach the bench.

          A piece of paper and a pen are put down in front of HANNA.
Her COUNSEL moves to the bench. MICHAEL stares, first at her,
then at the pen and paper, an apprehension rising in him.



          MICHAEL thinks back, to HANNA in her bedroom saying `No you
read', to her looking puzzled at the menu on the bicycle
trip, and to her throwing a book away in the apartment. At
this moment, MICHAEL realises she is illiterate.



          Back in the courtroom, HANNA looks up to the JUDGE to stop
the conference.


                    There's no need. I wrote the
report.





          MICHAEL, in a panic, pushes along his row, past ROHL and the
others, who all look up, knowing something is going on. HANNA
turns, as if sensing him behind her.



          MICHAEL is sitting on the steps outside the lecture room.
ROHL walks straight past him.


                    You've been skipping seminars.



          MICHAEL comes into the room and sits down, smoking a
cigarette. ROHL waits.


                    So?

          MICHAEL looks at him.


                    I have a piece of information.
Concerning one of the defendants.
Something they're not admitting.


                    What information?

          MICHAEL stubs out his cigarette.


                    You don't need me to tell you. It's
perfectly clear you have a moral
obligation to disclose it to the
court.


                    It happens this information is
favourable to the defendant. It can
help her case. It may even affect
the outcome, certainly the
sentencing.


                    So?


                    There's a problem. The defendant
herself is determined to keep this
information secret.





          Two STUDENTS come in for the seminar.


                    A moment, please. Please.

          Chastened, they leave.


                    What are her reasons?


                    Because she's ashamed.


                    Ashamed? Ashamed of what?

          MICHAEL doesn't answer.


                    Have you spoken to her?


                    Of course not.


                    Why of course not?


                    I can't. I can't do that. I can't
talk to her.


                    What we feel isn't important. It's
utterly unimportant. The only
question is what we do.

          ROHL gets up.


                    If people like you don't learn from
what happened to people like me,
then what the hell is the point of
anything?



          HANNA is sitting on the edge of her bed. A GUARD comes to the
door.


                    You have a visitor. Michael Berg.

          HANNA is taken aback for a moment. Then she gets up.







          MICHAEL is standing smoking a cigarette in the waiting area.
A whole number of visitors, old people, children, families
are waiting. Some kids are playing with a football. Then a
GUARD arrives and calls out names. MICHAEL's name is called.



          HANNA is led swiftly down a prison corridor towards her
meeting and sat down at a desk to wait.



          MICHAEL is led in the GROUP towards the visiting room. It has
come on to snow. As he walks towards the room, he loses
heart. He changes his mind. The rest of the GROUP go on, as
he falls behind, watching them go. He begins to turn back.



          HANNA sits down at the empty table, waiting.



          MICHAEL turns away and heads back the way he came.



          HANNA looks round. Nobody is coming. She waits more.


                    Time's up.



          HANNA is still waiting. Then she is led back to her cell.



          MICHAEL appears at the door of MARTHE'S room. She is working
at her desk. He smiles and closes the door.


                    You've taken your time.

          They kiss. She starts to pull his clothes off. He lets her.
He makes no move to undress her. She takes all his clothes
off until he is naked, and she remains clothed. He looks at
her a moment, then takes her in his arms and they go down on
the bed. They make love.







          MARTHE is apparently asleep, MICHAEL awake. As quietly as he
can MICHAEL tries to slip away.


                    Where are you going?


                    I'm sorry. I need to sleep by
myself.



          HANNA is standing naked at the sink, preparing herself for
the day.



          MICHAEL is lying in his own bed, staring up at the ceiling,
not able to sleep. MICHAEL reluctantly pushes back the cover
and gets naked out of bed. Slowly he begins to dress.



          HANNA washes herself, naked.



          MICHAEL is dressed now. He stands in front of his mirror,
adjusting his tie.



          HANNA stands in front of the mirror, tying her tie. There is
a small, inadequate mirror in which she checks her dress - a
black suit, a white blouse and black tie. She looks very
formal.



          HANNA is led through the prison by a GUARD.



          A lot of people heading into the courtroom. As the seminar
group goes in, MICHAEL hangs back. ROHL looks at him as he
goes through the doors. MICHAEL is left outside, then goes to
watch as the vans arrive.







          HANNA and the PRISONERS are led into the court. HANNA'S suit
is so formal that members of the public call out. `Nazi!
Nazi!' DIETER leans in to MARTHE. HANNA walks on to her
place.



          Everyone rises as the JUDGES come in to take their places.
HANNA's face is resigned, without expression. The JUDGES sit.
The whole court goes quiet.


                    The court finds guilty the
defendants Rita Beckhart, Karolina
Steinhof, Regina Kreutz, Angela
Zieber, Andrea Luhmann jointly
aiding and abetting murder in three
hundred cases. The court finds the
defendant Hanna Schmitz guilty of
murder in three hundred cases.

          There are tears in MICHAEL's eyes as he watches.


                    The court sentences the accused as
follows. Rita Beckhart, Karolina
Steinhof, Regina Kreutz, Angela
Zieber, and Andrea Luhmann, you
will each serve a total sentence in
prison of four years and three
months.

          ROHL, MARTHE, DIETER and the students are looking down on the
sentencing. MICHAEL is crying.


                    Hanna Schmitz, in view of your own
admissions and your special role,
you are in a different category.
The court sentences the accused
Schmitz to imprisonment for life.

          HANNA is impassive, not reacting. Then she turns and looks up
to the gallery.



          MICHAEL walks away through the cameras and news crews.







          MICHAEL sits on the train, thinking. The younger MICHAEL
becomes the older.



          1976. MICHAEL is sitting beside JULIA. MICHAEL is 32, JULIA
is a bright little 4 year-old in a coat. The countryside
speeding by.


                    Where are we going?


                    I said : I'll tell you when we get
there. You told me you liked
surprises.


                    I like surprises.



          MICHAEL walks with JULIA towards their old house. He looks
round, the memory of coming with HANNA as a sick boy 18 years
earlier clear in his mind. The same landmarks.



          They are all three eating at the dinner table, eating a small
roast chicken.


                    She's grown, hasn't she?


                    I don't know. It's so long since I
saw her, Michael, how can I tell?


                    My fault. We shouldn't have come
unannounced.


                    Daddy, why's she angry?

          MICHAEL smiles. Even CARLA smiles slightly.


                    I'm afraid I've have some bad news.
Julia knows.
                              (MORE)



                              MICHAEL (cont'd)
We've already told her. Gertrud and
I are getting a divorce.


                    Daddy's going to live in his own
house.


                    You didn't come for your father's
funeral, but you come for this?


                    You know, it's not easy for me to
visit this town.


                    Were you really so unhappy?


                    That's not what I'm saying. It's
not what I meant.


                    Well then?

          CARLA looks at him hard.


                    You mustn't worry about Gertrud.
I'm going to look after her. And
anyway, let's face it, she's
already a state prosecutor, she
earns far more than I do.


                    Michael, I'm not worried about
Gertrud. I'm worried about you.



          Exhausted by her day, JULIA is sleeping in MICHAEL'S arms. He
looks down at her, full of love.



          On the other side of a busy Berlin street full of traffic,
MICHAEL holds JULIA'S hand, a loving father, to guide her
across the street.



          GERTRUD has come to the door, a shrewd-looking intelligent
woman, a little older than MICHAEL, very thin, in slacks and
a blouse. MICHAEL is standing outside with JULIA.






                    Hello Mummy.


                    Hello beautiful.

          GERTRUD leans down and scoops JULIA up, kisses her. MICHAEL
stands on the step, hovering.


                    Do you mind if I don't ask you in?


                    I don't mind at all. I've a lot to
do, in fact.

          It doesn't look like it. He stands, not going.


                    I took her to see where I grew up.


                    You went to the West? My God, what
a trip.


                    We went to say hello to granny.


                    Oh. Daddy took you to see Carla,
did he?


                    She was strange.


                    Come on, let's see what's on TV.

          GERTRUD gives JULIA her supper and puts her in front of the
TV. Then she comes back to MICHAEL.


                    I bet she was strange.


                    You could say.


                    She always was. Why on earth did
you decide to do that?


                    I don't know. Impulse.





          GERTRUD says nothing.


                    I suppose if I'm honest we went
because I wanted to re-establish
contact.


                    With your mother? And did you
succeed?

          They both smile.


                    Are you all right?

          He touches her arm.


                    Michael you're meant to be an
intelligent man. Don't you know,
it's very hard to receive contact
if you're not willing to give it?

          GERTRUD looks level, not unkind.


                    Say goodbye to Julia.


                    Goodbye, Daddy.

          MICHAEL turns to say goodbye.



          MICHAEL standing in the empty room. It's eerily silent. He
goes to his bookcase. He runs his fingers along the spines,
as HANNA once did. He takes out a paperback of the Odyssey.
He looks at it a moment, then he starts to read to himself.


                    "Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the
man of twists and turns
Driven time and again off course,
once he had plundered
The hallowed heights of Troy...

          He sits back.







          HANNA is in her cell, folding her blanket. She is 53, a new
austerity, a greyness about her. Her cell is modern, but
without decoration.



          A GUARD comes along the corridor, calling out `Mail'. She
leans into Hanna's cell to tell her she has mail. HANNA is
obviously surprised.



          HANNA reports to the mail room where she is given a big
parcel, which she is told to open. Inside, a huge batch of
casette tapes and a tape machine.



          HANNA is opening the box, taking out the tapes.



          MICHAEL gets out a tape machine.



          In her cell HANNA takes out the machine.



          MICHAEL holds the microphone.


                    Testing. Testing. 1-2-3.



          HANNA puts a cassette into the machine.


                    The Odyssey by Homer.

          In panic, she turns it off.



          MICHAEL presses the recording button and speaks into the
machine.






                    The Odyssey by Homer.
"Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the
man of twists and turns
Driven time and again off course,
once he had plundered
The hallowed heights of Troy...
Many cities of men he saw and
learned their minds,
Many pains he suffered, heartsick
at the open sea,
Fighting to save his life and bring
his comrades home...



          Later. MICHAEL is now walking up and down, in his shorts and
T-shirt, microphone in hand, still reading.


                    "Ah, how shameless - the way these
mortals blame the gods.
From us alone, they say, come all
their miseries...



          Middle of the night. MICHAEL is lying on his back, still
reading.


                    "Who are you? Where are you from?
Your city? Your parents?
I'm wonderstruck - you drank my
drugs, you're not bewitched..."



          MICHAEL takes a cassette and puts it into a white box. He
writes on the side ODYSSEY 6. Then he reaches up to put it on
a shelf next to boxes separately marked ODYSSEY 1,2,3,4,5.
Then he takes out a small notebook and cross-references the
new tape in a handwritten list.



          It's dark. HANNA is lying on the bed.


                    Zeus from the very start, the
thunder king
Has hated the race of Atreus with a
vengeance -
                              (MORE)



                              MICHAEL'S VOICE (cont'd)
His trustiest weapon women's
twisted wiles...

          HANNA smiles with pleasure at his reading.



          A montage of MICHAEL reading and HANNA listening. MICHAEL is
reading different books. He is animated now, excited. There
are extracts from The Old Man and the Sea (Hemingway) ;
Anatol (Schnitzler) ; The World of Yesterday (Zweig) and
Doctor Zhivago (Pasternak). MICHAEL catching fire with
excitement with what he is doing. HANNA collecting the tapes
from the mail room and organizing on her shelves - her
library growing.



          HANNA is lying in bed listening to a new tape.


                    The Lady with the Little   Dog, by
Anton Chekhov. "The talk   was that a
new face had appeared on   the
promenade, a lady with a   little
dog..."



          HANNA is walking round with other PRISONERS, in sequence.
Suddenly she stops dead, an idea hitting her.



          The library is right next to the mail room. HANNA walks past
the mail room and goes to the library counter.


                    I want to take out a book.


                    Which book?


                    Do you have The Lady with the
Little Dog?


                    What's your name?


                    Hanna Schmitz.





          The LIBRARIAN goes to get it. HANNA stands, waiting and looks
at the stacks of books, for the first time seeing
possibility.



          HANNA is back in the cell. She puts down a new parcel and a
book. She puts the parcel to one side, then opens the book.
She then winds back the tape which is already in the
recorder.


                    The Lady with the Little Dog, a
story by Anton Chekhov. The talk
was...

          She turns off the tape. She runs her finger along the title
`The Lady with the Little Dog'. She gets down a small
decorated metal tin, and takes a pencil from it. She starts
making the sounds. `The', `the', `the'... L, L, L, etc.



          HANNA is working now, circling the word `the' each time it
comes in the book. The book is covered in marks.



          1981. MICHAEL is coming down a busy Kreuzberg street. He is
37. He goes into his block. He opens the door : the place is
much more lived-in. He picks up his mail. Thumbing through
it, he sees a letter in childish handwriting. MICHAEL frowns,
opening it and taking out a piece of paper.



          MICHAEL is holding a letter. He looks down at the writing :
`Thanks for the latest, kid. I really liked it.' He stares,
then puts it down and steps back stunned.



          HANNA stands with a new package. She opens it excitedly. She
takes out tapes. She looks for writing, a letter. There is
none. She turns the packing paper over and over, but there's
nothing. She stands, desolate.



          HANNA effortfully writing various letters - just a single
message on each. The pen working agonizingly across the
paper. First :







          Next:





          MICHAEL continuing to read to her on the machine.



          HANNA still writing.



          Then finally, many attempts at the same sentence, written
many times :





          MICHAEL is reading the latest letter from HANNA. He looks at
it. "Do you receive my letters? Write to me, kid." MICHAEL
opens a drawer in a file box on the floor. There is a stack
of her letters inside. He puts the latest on top of the pile
and closes the drawer.



          HANNA stands at her window, in despair.



          1988. MICHAEL, 44, is at his desk, with the phone in his
hand, with a typed letter in front of him.


                    You're Michael Berg?


                    Yes.


                    You got my letter?


                    I have it here.


                    As I say, Hanna Schmitz is coming
up for release very soon.





          MICHAEL fingers the letter a moment.



          MS BRENNER is sitting at her desk in a simple, modern office.


                    Hanna has been in prison for over
twenty years. She has no family.
She has no friends. You're her only
contact. And I'm told you don't
visit her.



          MICHAEL is sitting quite still.


                    No. I don't.




                    When she gets out, she's going to
need a job. She's going to need
somewhere to live. You can't
imagine how frightening the modern
world will seem to her.

          There is a silence.


                    Yes. I'm still here.




                    I have no-one else to ask. If you
don't take responsibility for her,
then Hanna has no future at all.


                    It's kind of you. Thank you for
letting me know.

          MICHAEL puts the phone down. He looks as if he has just been
handed a sentence. He gets up and stares at the wall which is
now stacked with all the books he has read. Then he goes to
his balcony.



          MICHAEL stands looking out over Berlin from his balcony.







          MICHAEL walks along the road by the prison wall, then goes to
the guichet to sign in.



          MICHAEL is waiting in a small barred waiting area as MS
BRENNER walks across the yard to open the gate and let
MICHAEL in.


                    You're Michael Berg?


                    Yes.


                    Louisa Brenner. We were expecting
you earlier.



          MS BRENNER is walking MICHAEL up the steps towards the prison
canteen. They pass GUARDS and INMATES.


                    I should warn you: for a long time
Hanna held herself together. She
was very purposeful. In the last
few years she's different. She's
let herself go.



          MS BRENNER leads MICHAEL to the door of the canteen.


                    They're in the canteen. They're
just finishing lunch.

          MICHAEL sees an OLD WOMAN who is sitting at a table. Her blue
dress is stretched too tight across her heavy body. Her hair
is grey. She has a book in her lap, but she's not reading it.
A few PRISONERS are finishing their meal.

          It takes MICHAEL a moment to realise the OLD WOMAN is HANNA.
Then HANNA becomes aware of being watched. She turns and
looks round. At once her face lights up. MICHAEL smiles back,
but as he approaches her, he fixes onto her inquiring look
and sees the light go out of her eyes, as if she has looked
at him and been disappointed. He sits down opposite her. She
smiles, weary.






                    You've grown up, kid.

          She takes his hand. There is a long silence, MICHAEL unable
to think of anything to say. He withdraws his hand.


                    I've got a friend who's a tailor,
he makes my suits. He'll give you a
job. And I've found you somewhere
to live. It's a nice place. Quite
small but nice. I think you'll like
it.


                    Thank you.

          There's a moment's silence.


                    There are various social
programmes, cultural stuff I can
sign you up for. And there's a
public library very close.

          HANNA nods slightly.


                    You read a lot?


                    I prefer being read to.

          There is a short silence.


                    That's over now, isn't it?

          MICHAEL doesn't answer.


                    Did you get married?


                    I did. Yes I did. We have a
daughter. I'm not seeing as much of
her as I would like. I'd like to
see a great deal more of her.

          After a few moments, he concedes.


                    The marriage didn't last.





          There is a silence.


                    Have you spent a lot of time
thinking about the past?


                    You mean, with you?


                    No. No, I didn't mean with me.


                    Before the trial I never thought
about the past. I never had to.


                    And now? What do you feel now?

          HANNA looks a moment, a haunting look, searching him.


                    It doesn't matter what I think. It
doesn't matter what I feel. The
dead are still dead.

          There's a silence.


                    I wasn't sure what you'd learnt.


                    I have learnt, kid. I've learnt to
read.

          MICHAEL stares, devastated.


                    I'll pick you up next week, OK?


                    That sounds a good plan.


                    Good. Quietly, or shall we make a
big fuss?


                    Quietly.


                    OK. Quietly.





          They look at each other. The other PRISONERS have already
gone. They stand up. She scans his face again, searching for
his thoughts. He takes her in his arms, a little awkward.


                    Take care, kid.


                    You too.

          They walk side by side, back towards the door. Then by way of
saying goodbye, she takes his hand.


                    See you next week.

          She stretches her arm out before she lets go of his hand,
then vanishes inside. MICHAEL walks on alone.



          MICHAEL comes out of the main entrance. He stands a moment,
looking round at the evening. MICHAEL walks to his car.



          The room is simple, a bedroom to one side, a bathroom to the
other. It is all furnished with simple functional furniture.
The end of a hard day's work. MICHAEL hangs a picture over
the desk - a landscape, reminiscent of where they once went
cycling. The job is done. He looks round, grimly content.



          HANNA is lying on her bed, fully dressed. She gets up and
gets some books down from the shelf. She puts them, one by
one, in a pile on the table. Then she takes off her shoes.
She stands up and climbs onto the pile of books on the table.
Her bare feet on the books. Then she reaches up.



          MICHAEL gets out of the car. He is carrying a bunch of
flowers. He walks towards the prison. He leans in to the
GUARD who is in a modern office.



          From the far end of the corridor, MICHAEL is seen sitting on
a bench. MS BRENNER comes out of her office and murmurs in
his ear. MICHAEL is seen nodding, ashen.







          The two of them come together down the corridor. They stop at
the open door of the cell. The body has been removed. The
books are still on the floor. MICHAEL goes in. A bare table,
a chair, a bed, a closet, a toilet in the corner behind the
door. There are shelves with books, an alarm clock, a stuffed
bear, two mugs, instant coffee, tea tins.


                    She didn't pack. She never intended
to leave.

          MS BRENNER looks at him in confirmation. MICHAEL looks at the
two lower shelves on which are ranged the tapes with the
cassette machine.

          Above the bed are a series of cuttings, pictures torn from
magazines, showing meadows, hillsides, pasture, cherry trees.
One in particular : a burst of autumnal colours. MICHAEL
kneels on the bed to look at them. There are quotations,
articles, recipes, even sayings in HANNA'S childish
handwriting : `Spring lets its blue banner flutter through
the air' is one. Then he sees a newspaper photograph : the
young MICHAEL BERG receiving a prize from the school
principal. The headline `Michael Berg receives school
literature prize.'

          MS BRENNER reaches out for a tea tin from the shelf. Then she
sits next to MICHAEL on the bed, and takes out a folded sheet
of paper from her suit pocket.


                    She left me a message, a sort of
will. I'll read out the bit that
concerns you.

          MICHAEL looks at the effortful handwriting on the page.


                    "There is money in the old tea tin.
Give it to Michael Berg. He should
send it, alongside the 7,000 marks
in the bank, to the daughter who
wrote the book. It's for her. She
should decide what to do with it.
And tell Michael I said hello. Tell
him to get on with his life."

          MS BRENNER looks at him.


                    Do you want to see her?





          MICHAEL shakes his head.



          MICHAEL rides in a taxi into Manhattan. A view of the
familiar skyline.



          MICHAEL'S taxi comes up Fifth Avenue. It draws up outside an
expensive apartment block. MICHAEL gets out and goes in, the
Manhattan skyline opening up behind him.



          A superbly appointed space full of great and expensive art.
MICHAEL has taken his coat off. ILANA MATHER appears,
elegant, well-dressed - on the surface, the spirit of
prosperous New York. She is now in her early fifties.


                    Ms Mather?


                    Yes. You're Michael Berg. I was
expecting you.


                    So you must tell me: what exactly
brings you to the United States?


                    I was already here. I was at a
conference in Boston.


                    You're a lawyer?


                    Yes.


                    I was intrigued by your letter but
I can't say I wholly understood it.
You attended the trial?


                    Yes. Almost twenty years ago. I was
a law student. I remember you, I
remember your mother very clearly.






                    My mother died in Israel - a good
many years ago.


                    I'm sorry.

          MICHAEL hesitates for a moment.


                    Go on, please.


                    Perhaps you heard. Hanna Schmitz
recently died. She killed herself.

          ILANA shakes her head.


                    She was a friend of yours?


                    A kind of friend. It's as simple as
this. Hanna was illiterate for the
greater part of her life.


                    Is that an explanation of her
behaviour?


                    No.


                    Or an excuse?

          MICHAEL shakes his head.


                    No. No. She taught herself to read
when she was in prison. I sent her
tapes. She'd always liked being
read to.

          ILANA shifts slightly.


                    Why don't you start by being honest
with me? At least start that way.
What was the nature of your
friendship?






                    When I was young I had an affair
with Hanna.

          ILANA looks at him for a moment.


                    I'm not sure I can help you, Mr.
Berg. Or rather, even if I could
I'm not willing to.


                    I was almost sixteen when I took up
with her. The affair only lasted a
summer. But.


                    But what?

          MICHAEL just looks at her.


                    I see. And did Hanna Schmitz
acknowledge the effect she'd had on
your life?

          MICHAEL stares back, understood for the first time.


                    She'd done much worse to other
people. I've never told anyone.


                    People ask all the time what I
learned in the camps. But the camps
weren't therapy. What do you think
these places were? Universities? We
didn't go there to learn. One
becomes very clear about these
things.

          ILANA looks at him, unrelenting.


                    What are you asking for?
Forgiveness for her? Or do you just
want to feel better yourself? My
advice, go to the theatre, if you
want catharsis. Please. Go to
literature. Don't go to the camps.
Nothing comes out of the camps.
Nothing.





          ILANA looks at him, unrelenting.


                    What she wanted...what she wanted
was to leave you her money. I have
with me.


                    To do what?


                    As you think fit.

          MICHAEL reaches for his briefcase. He takes out the lavender
tea-tin, which he sets down on the table in front of ILANA.


                    Here.

          ILANA lifts the tin.


                    When I was a little girl, I had a
tea-tin for my treasures. Not quite
like this. It had Cyrillic
lettering. I took it with me to the
camp, but it got stolen.


                    What was in it?


                    Oh. Sentimental things. A piece of
hair from our dog. Some tickets to
operas my father had taken me to.
It wasn't stolen for its contents.
It was the tin itself which was
valuable, what you could do with
it.

          She sits a moment, overcome, her hand on the tin.


                    There's nothing I can do with this
money. If I give it to anything
associated with the extermination
of the Jews, then to me it will
seem like absolution and that is
something I'm neither willing nor
in a position to grant.

          MICHAEL nods slightly.






                    I was thinking maybe an
organization to encourage literacy.


                    Good.

          There's a silence.


                    Good.


                    Do you know if there's a Jewish
organization?


                    I'll be surprised if there isn't.
There's a Jewish organisation for
everything. Not that illiteracy is
a very Jewish problem.

          There is the shadow of a smile.


                    Why don't you find out? Send them
the money.


                    Shall I do it in Hanna's name?


                    As you think fit.

          ILANA smiles slightly. She puts her hand on top of the tin.


                    I'll keep the tin.



          ILANA is standing at the window watching down to the street
where MICHAEL is walking away. She has the tin in her hand.
When he's vanished, she turns and goes into her bedroom.
There on the dressing table, there is a framed photo of ILANA
with her mother in Germany before the war. She sets the tin
down beside the photo.



          1995. MICHAEL is driving JULIA in the big Mercedes through
the German countryside. He is tense, silent. JULIA takes a
sideways look at him, but he does not respond.






                    Where are we going?


                    I thought you liked surprises.


                    I do. I do like surprises.



          They draw up at a church. It is the same one he and HANNA
passed on their bicycles years before. MICHAEL and JULIA get
out and walk towards the graveyard at the side.



          MICHAEL 
cemetery is seen. MICHAEL stoops down and uncovers a simple
stone : HANNA SCHMITZ 1923-1988. JULIA watching, says her
name.


                    Hanna Schmitz.

          JULIA waits a moment.


                    Who was she?


                    That's what I wanted to tell you.
That's why we're here.

          JULIA looks, waiting. MICHAEL looks for a moment as if he
will not go on.


                    So tell me.

          There is a moment, then they turn to stroll, MICHAEL talking,
starting to tell the story.


                    I was 15, I was coming home from
school, I was ill...

          They walk away among the trees.







