





















rockabilly: mean, surly, nasty, rude. In that movie he couldn't give a fuck 
about anything except rockin' and rollin', livin' fast, dyin' young, and 
leaving a good-looking corpse. I love that scene where after he's made it 
big he's throwing a big cocktail party, and all these highbrows are there, 
and he's singing, "Baby You're So Square... Baby, I Don't Care". Now, they 
got him dressed like a dick. He's wearing these stupid-lookin' pants, this 
horrible sweater. Elvis ain't no sweater boy. I even think they got him 
wearin' penny loafers. Despite all that shit, all the highbrows at the 
party, big house, the stupid clothes, he's still a rude-lookin' 
motherfucker. I'd watch that hillbilly and I'd want to be him so bad. Elvis 
looked good. I'm no fag, but Elvis was good-lookin'. He was fuckin' 
prettier than most women. I always said if I ever had to fuck a guy... I 
mean had too 'cause my life depended on it... I'd fuck Elvis.
















isn't it?

















Streetfighter", and "Sister Streetfighter".
































































motherfuckin' thang.






but, if I did eat some pussy, I sure as hell wouldn't tell no goddamn body. 
I'd be ashamed as a motherfucker.



things. So you won't eat pussy? Motherfucker, you be up there suckin' 
niggers' dicks.










pussy licked. Then the sixties came an' they started fuckin' around with 
white boys. And white boys are freaks for that shit -






because you white boys had to make pigs out of yourselves, you fucked it up 
for every nigger in the world everywhere.



express our gratitude -





pussy-eatin' mugs. Now if a nigger wants to get his dick sucked he's got to 
do a bunch of fucked-up shit.
























You with some fine bitch, I mean a brick shithouse bitch - you're with 
Jayne Kennedy. You're with Jayne Kennedy and you say "Bitch, suck my dick!" 
and then Jayne Kennedy says, "First things first, nigger, I ain't suckin' 
shit till you bring your ass over here and lick my bush!" Now, what do you 
say?






County so fast -




























kiss her ass, lick her feet, chow on her shit, and suck her dog's dick, 
nigger, you'd aim to please.







toss me that shotgun.

































































I'm acting a little dense, but you're the last person in the world I 
expected to see this morning.





dyin' on thirst, you got anything to drink?









































I never shit it out, so I guess it's still there. Loverdoll, why don't you 
be a sport and go get us some beer. I want some beer.
















'cause different places have different things. If they got Fosters, get 
that, if not, ask the guy at the thing what the strongest imported beer he 
has. Look, since you're making a beer run, would you mind too terribly if 
you did a foot run as well. I'm fuckin' starvin' to death. Are you hungry 
too?



Ding-Dongs.











Chicken would really hit the spot about now. Chicken and beer, definitly, 
absolutely, without a doubt.























she a four alarm fire, or what?






only word for it, she's a peach. She even tastes like a peach. You can tell 
I'm in love with her. You can tell by my face, can't ya? It's a dead 
giveaway. It's written all over it. Ya know what? She loves me back. Take a 
seat, Pop, we gotta talk -



much like your mother you are. You're your fuckin' mother through and 
through. I haven't heard from ya in three years. Then ya show up all of a 
sudden at eight o'clock in the morning. You walk in like a goddamn 
bulldozer... don't get me wrong, I'm happy to see you... just slow it down. 
Now, when did you get married?































Marty. Peter Breck's already been cast as Brian. And you're reading for the 
part of Marty. Now in this scene you're both in a car and Bill Shatner's 
hanging on the hood.  And what you're trying to do is get him off.





























































free.



Making jokes is the one thing you're good at, isn't it? But if you make a 
joke about this -













some way. What do you need from me? You need money?









us. But I don't wanna think, I wanna know. You could find out for sure 
what's goin' on.




















your parental obligation as easy as possible. After Mom divorced you, did I 
ask you for anything? When I wouldn't see ya for six months to a year at a 
time, did you ever get your shit about it? No, it was always "OK", "No 
problem", "You're a busy guy, I understand". The whole time you were a 
drunk, did I ever point my finger at you and talk shit? No! Everybody else 
did. I never did. You see, I know that you're just a bad parent. You're not 
really very good at it. But I know you love me. I'm basically a pretty 
resourceful guy. If I didn't really need it I wouldn't ask. And if you say 
no, don't worry about it. I'm gone. No problems.

































might be, and I only said might be, the Drexl Spivey that was responsible 
for that restaurant break-in on Riverdale. 






for the company to try to put a stop to some of these break-ins. Now, while 
I have no proof, the name Drexl Spivey kept comin' up Who's case is it?















a new place - mirrors all over the bedroom, ceiling fans above the bed. 
Guy'd have to look as ugly as King Kong not to get laid in this place. I'm 
serious, a guy'd have to look like a gorilla.






















anything to you?












the more I hear about this Drexl fucker, the more I think you did the right 
thing. That guy wasn't just some wild flake.



aren't looking for me?



a falling out. So, once you leave twon, I wouldn't worry about it.














Alabama. I like her. I think you make a cute couple.






about. Quit fuckin' around.









can get a hold of me through him.





































friends we've made... and, with a touch of melancholy, we look forward to 
the time when we will all be together again.


























































way, I won't be alone. I'm bringing my wife with me.












I'm not quite sure how I did it. I'd hate to have to do it again. But I did 
it. Wanna say hi to my better half?











his best friend. So, I guess that makes you my best friend, too.
































































































all. Tell him I love him. And tell him, as of tomorrow, all his money 
problems are over.




explains it all. He wants you to know he loves you. And he wants you to 
know that as of tomorrow, all of your money problems are over.








































































the angels in heaven that you had never seen pure evil so singularly 
personified as you did in the face of the man who killed you. My name is 
Vincenzo Coccotti. I work as a counsel for Mr. Blue Lou Boyle, the man your 
son stole from. I hear you were once a cop so I assume you've heard od us 
before. Am I correct?






you've been asking yourself. Now, we're gonna have a little Q and A, and, 
at the risk of sounding redundant, please make your answers genuine.









must be for you. But Clarence and that bitch-whore girlfriend of his 
brought this all on themselves. And I implore you not to go down the road 
with 'em. You can always take comfort in the fact that you never had a 
choice.








that pain shootin' through your brain. Your eyes fill up with water. It 
ain't any kind of fun. But what I have to offer you. That's as good as it's 
ever gonna get, and it won't ever get that good again. We talked to your 
neighbors. They saw a Mustang, a red Mustang, Clarence's red Mustang, 
parked in front of your trailer yesterday. Mr. Worley, have you seen your 
son?








you're in the dark about some of this, let me shed some light. That whore 
your boy hangs around with, her pimp is an associate of mine, and I don't 
just mean pimpin', in other affairs he works for me in a courier capacity. 
Well, apparently, that dirty little whore found out when we're gonna do 
some business, 'cause your son, the cowboy and his flame, came in the room 
blastin' and didn't stop till they were pretty sure everybody was dead.






outta there. Wouldda gotten away with it, but your son, fuckhead that he 
is, left his driver's license in a dead guy's hand. A whore hiding in the 
commode filled in all the blanks.






I believe you. Where did they go?






go?








Yesterday he shows up here with a girl, sayin' he got married. He told me 
he needed some quick cash for a honeymoon, so he asked if he could borrow 
five hundred dollars. I wanted to help him out so I wrote out a check. We 
went to breakfast and that's the last I saw of him. So help me God. They 
never thought to tell me where they were goin'. And I never thought to ask.











old man was the world heavyweight champion of Sicilian liars. And from 
growin' up with him I learned the pantomime. Now there are seventeen 
different things a guy can do when he lies to give him away. A guy has 
seventeen pantomimes. A woman's got twenty, but a guy's got seventeen. And 
if you know 'em like ya know your own face, they beat lie detectors to 
hell. What we got here is a little game of show and tell. You don't wanna 
show me nothin'. But you're tellin' me everything. Now I know you know 
where they are. So tell me, before I do some damage you won't walk away 
from.



























find that shit fascinating. In fact, I don't know if you know this or not, 
Sicilians were spawned by niggers.








you don't believe me, look it up. You see, hundreds and hundreds of years 
ago the Moors conquered Sicily. And Moors are niggers. Way back then, 
Sicilians were like the wops in northern Italy. Blond hair, blue eyes. But, 
once the Moors moved in there, they changed the whole country. They did so 
much fuckin' with the Sicilian women, they changed the blood-line for ever, 
from blond hair and blue eyes to black hair and dark skin. I find it 
absolutely amazing to think that to this day, hundreds of years later, 
Sicilians still carry that nigger gene. I'm just quotin' history. It's a 
fact. It's written. Your ancestors were niggers. Your great, great, great, 
great, great-grandmother was fucked by a nigger, and had a half-nigger kid. 
That is a fact. Now tell me, am I lyin'?







in fuckin' hell for makin' me spill blood on my hands! Go to this 
comedian's son's apartment and come back with somethin' that tells me where 
that asshole went so I can wipe this egg off of my face and fix this 
fucked-up family for good.





















Hello my honey,
Hello my ragtime gal -





















before, and crashed the car. Now, picture this: their car's demolished, 
crowd is starting to gather, my mom is yelling, going into contractions, 
and my dad, who was losing it before, is now completely screaming yellow 
zonkers. Then, out of nowhere, as if from thin air, this big giant bus 
appears, and the bus-driver says, "Get her in here.". He forgot all about 
his route and just drove straight to the hospital. So, because he was such 
a nice guy, they wanted to name the baby after him, as a sign of gratitude. 
Well, his name was Waldo, and no matter how grateful they were, even if 
I'da been a boy, they would't call me Waldo. So they asked Waldo where he 
was from. And, so there you go.


















acting class.






bunch of women in the world. It's like they gotta pass a test of emotional 
instability before they can get their SAG card. Oh, guess what? I had a 
really good reading for "T.J. Hooker" the other day.





















































































































have been a real dick.









filling me in on what I missed?











to kill this guy the cops had. So he got himself arrested. They take him 
into the police station. And he starts kickin' all the cops' asses. Now, 
while keepin' them at bay, he finds the guy he was supposed to kill. Does a 
number on him. Kicks the cops' asses some more. Kicks the bars out of the 
window. And jumps out into a getaway car that was waiting for him.












bullshittin'. He fucks dudes up for life. Hold on, a fight scene's coming 
up.





















was the only movie up to that time rated X for violence. But we just saw 
the R.




















there, Alabama. Sounds like a Pam Grier movie.


She carried a sawed-off shotgun in her purse, a black belt around her 
waist, and the white-hot fire of hate in her eyes! Alabama Whitman is Pam 
Grier! Pray for forgiveness, Rated R... for Ruthless Revenge!





































get some pie, and talk about it. It's sort of tradition. Do you like to eat 
pie after you've seen a good movie?



































color? Who's your favorite movie star? What kinda music do you like? What 
are your turn-ons and turn-offs? Do you have a fella? What's the story 
behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone? And, in a 
theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?























































Elvis's voice, good kung fu, and a tasty piece of pie.






thing that comes to mind are Persians.











alone?



form of amnesia. When I came to, I didn't know who I was, where I was, or 
where I came from. Luckily, I had my driver's license or I wouldn't even 
know my name. I hoped it would tell me where I lived but it had a 
Tallahassee address on it, and I stopped somebody on the street and they 
told me I was in Detroit. So that was no help. But I did have some money on 
me, so I hopped in a cab until I saw somethin' that looked familiar. For 
some reason, and don't ask me why, that theater looked familiar. So I told 
him to stop and I got out.






couldda used a nice guy about that time, so I spilled my popcorn on you.




















play music.












I'm doing. Everybody who works here is my buddy. I'm friendly with most of 
the customers. I just hang around and talk about comic books all day.






some money if you need it. Wanna see what "Spiderman" number one looks 
like?














boxes. "Green Hornet" board games. Shit like that. But comic books are main 
business. There's a lot of collectors around here.








They're real cool. Did you know they came out with dolls for all the actors 
in "The Black Hole"? I always found it funny somewhere there's a kid 
playin' with a little figure of Earnest Borgnine.













Gene Scott? He said that the story of Spiderman is the story of Christ, 
just disguised. Well, I thought about that even before I heard him say it. 
Hold on, let me show you my favorite comic book cover of all time.





man. They're completely worthless. You can get number one for about four 
bucks. But that's one of the cool things about them, they're so cheap.


at this one.





a chain. OK, later in the story he gets into a fight with a Nazi bastard on 
a ship. He knocks the guy overboard, but the Kraut grabs ahold of his chain 
and the ring goes overboard too. So, Nick dives into the ocean to get it. 
Isn't that cool?






















then?

























she doesn't want me bothering her.























too much. It shouldn't have killed her. There was somethin' wrong with what 
she took.






happiest time of her life. She'd been fucked over so much by men she didn't 
trust them. She was havin' this relationship with this guy and he asked her 
to marry him. Now, other people had asked to marry her before, but she 
couldn't be sure whether they really loved her or were just after her 
money. So, she said no. And the guy says, "Look, I really love you, and I 
wanna prove it. So have your lawyers draw up a paper that says no matter 
what happens, I can never get any of your money, and I'll sign it." So she 
did, and he asked her, and she said yes. And once they were engaged he told 
her a secret about himself that she never knew: he was a millionaire.
































theater. I was paid to be there.



sure they're not rippin' the place off.













comic book place.












you, pick you up, spend the night, and skip out after you fell asleep. I 
was gonna write you a note and say that this was my last day in America. 
That I was leaving on a plane this morning up to Ukraine to marry a rich 
millionaire, and thank you for making my last day in America my best day.






anymore. I didn't not want to ever see you again. In fact, it's stupid not 
to ever see you again. Las night... I don't know... I felt... I hadn't had 
that much fun since Girl Scouts. So I just said, "Alabama, come clean, Let 
him know what's what, and if he tells you to go fuck yourself then go back 
to Drexl and fuck yourself."






























decent. But I've only been there about four days. He got a little rough 
with Arlene the other day.






scary.








before he's slappin' you around? Punchin' you in the stomach? How the fuck 
did you get hooked up with a douche-bag like this in the first place?



agency in California that, on his recommendation, would handle me. They 
have a very exclusive clientele: movie stars, big businessmen, total 
white-collar. And all the girls in the agency get a grand a night. At least 
five hundred. They drive Porsches, live in condos, have stockbrokers, carry 
beepers, you know, like Nancy Allen in "Dressed to Kill". And when I was 
ready he'd call 'em, give me a plane ticket, and send me on my way. He says 
he makes a nice finder's fee for finding them hot prospects. But no one's 
gonna pay a grand a night for a girl who doesn't know whether to shit or 
wind her watch. So what I'm doin' for Drexl now is just sorta learnin' the 
ropes. It seemed like a lotta fun, but I don't really like it much, till 
last night. You were only my third trick, but you didn't feel like a trick. 
Since it was a secret, I just pretended I was on a date. An, um, I guess I 
want a second date.



Bama, I know we haven't known each other long, but my parents went together 
all throughout high school, and they still got a divorce. So, fuck it, you 
wanna marry me?







































One-Armed Boxer.






Master of the Flying Guillotine", tonight's eight o'clock movie, after 
these important messages...



















































your lovely wife today?


































fuck 'er in the ass, fuck 'er in the mouth. Rough stuff, too. She's a freak 
for it. Jus' try not to fuck 'er up for life.



























































gettin' away with it every day. Are you haunted?



























to kill him. But I don't wanna go to jail for the rest of my life.









think the cops do when a pimp's killed? Burn the midnight oil tryin' to 
find who done it? They couldn't give a flyin' fuck if all the pimps in the 
whole wide world took two in the back of the fuckin' head. If you don't get 
caught at the scene with the smokin' gun in your hand, you got away with 
it.







































He can't touch you now. You're completely out of his reach. He poses 
absolutely no threat to us. So, if he doesn't matter, which he doesn't, it 
would be stupid to lose your things, now wouldn't it?






I need for you to know you can count on me to protect you. Now write down 
the address.






































































got that fine young pussy. Bitches want the rock they be a freak for you. 
They give you hips, lips, and fingertips.












the kind of pussy I'm talkin' about.





Cherry Seven-Up.









everything here from a diddle-eyed-Joe to a damned-if-I-know.






All full. Is that it? Naw, I don't think so. I think you're too scared to 
be eatin'. Now, see we're sittin' down here, ready to negotiate, and you've 
already given up your shit. I'm still a mystery to you. But I know exactly 
where your ass is comin' from. See, if I asked you if you wanted some 
dinner and you grabbed an egg roll and started to chow down, I'd say to 
myself, "This motherfucker's carryin' on like he ain't got a care in the 
world. Who know? Maybe he don't. Maybe this fool's such a bad motherfucker, 
he don't got to worry about nothin', he just sit down, eat my Chinese, 
watch my TV." See? You ain't even sat down yet. On that TV there, since you 
been in the room, is a woman with her titties hangin' out, and you ain't 
even bothered to look. You just been starin' at me. Now, I know I'm pretty, 
but I ain't as pretty as a couple of titties.





stayin'. I'm not lookin' at the movie 'cause I saw it seven years ago. It's 
"The Mack" with Max Julian, Carol Speed, and Richard Pryor, written by 
Bobby Poole, directed by Michael Campus, and released by Cinerama Releasing 
Company in 1984. I'm not scared of you. I just don't like you. In that 
envelope is some payoff money. Alabama's moving on to some greener 
pastures. We're not negotiatin'. I don't like to barter.  I don't like to 
dicker. I never have fun in Tijuana. That price is non-negotiable. What's 
in that envelope is for my peace of mind. My peace of mind is worth that 
much. Not one penny more, not one penny more.












here? Motherfuckin' Charles Bronson. Is that who you supposed to be? Mr. 
Majestyk? Looky here, Charlie, none of this shit is necessary. I ain't got 
no hold on Alabama. I just tryin' to lend the girl a helpin' hand -


























































my goddamn house, my house! Gonna come in here and tell me! Talkin' smack, 
in my house, in front of my employees. Shit! Your ass must be crazy.












nigger's crib, an' get all his face, make sure you do it on white boy day.


















like a nigger name.







just chalked it up to au revoir Alabama. But, because you think you're some 
macho motherfucker, I know who she's with. You. I know who you are, 
Clarence Worley. And, I know where you live, 4900 116th  street, apartment 
48. And I'll make a million-dollar bet, Alabama's at the same address. 
Marty, take the car and go get 'er. Bring her dumb ass back here.








suck my dick, and I'll come all in her face. I mean it ain't nuttin' new. 
She's done it before. But I want you as a audience.









lately.








































































of everythin'.














there I said to myself, "If I can kill 'em and get away with it, I'll do 
it." I could. So I did.






I've never had a hamburger taste this good.










had been me? Do you love him?




















































































































with it. And what Clarence wants to do is sell it. Then me and Bama are 
gonna leave on a jet plane and spend the rest of our lives spendin'. So, 
you got my letter, have you lined up any buyers?








set.



those guys. But most of the people I know are like me. They ain't got a pot 
to piss in or a window to throw it out of. Now, if you want to sell a 
little bit at a time -









thousand. How difficult can that be?



Fat cats. Guys who can use that kind of quantity. Guys who can afford two 
hundred thousand. Basically, guys I don't know. You don't know. And, more 
important, they don't know you. I did talk with one guy who could possibly 
help you.






very powerful movie producer named Lee Donowitz. I thought Donowitz could 
be interested in a deal like this. He could use it. He could afford it.






wasn't.















getting to know you stuff.






















married. You killed a guy.






Clarence, you killed somebody and you're blowin' it off like it don't mean 
shit.



fuckin', freeloadin', parasitic scumbag, and he got exactly what he 
deserved. I got no pity for a mad dog like that. I think I should get a 
merit badge or somethin'.





you to rise to the occasion. So, drink some more wine. Get used to the 
idea, and get your friend to the phone.










unloading -



























enough so you can't see it from the street.







of a paste -








tell you but you gotta keep it quiet. Understand, if Dick didn't assure me 
you're good people I'd just tell ya, none of your fuckin' business. But, as 
a sign of good faith, here it goes: I gotta friend in the department.












questions. Well, a year and a half ago, this friend of mine got access to 
the evidence room for an hour. He snagged this coke. But, he's a good cop 
with a wife and a kid, so he sat on it for a year and a half until he found 
a guy he could trust.






handling the sales part. He's my silent partner and he knows if I get 
fucked up, I won't drop dime on him. I didn't tell you nothin' and you 
didn't hear nothin'.
















French vanilla ice-cream?








French vanilla ice-cream?

















guys, and he's been dealing with them for years. They're reliable. They're 
dependable. And, they're safe.



the fuck are you doing here? I'm sure you got better things to do with your 
time than walk around in circles starin' up a panther's ass. Your guy's 
interested because with that much shit at his fingertips he can play Joe 
fuckin' Hollywood till the wheels come off. He can sell it, he can snort 
it, he can play Santa Claus with it. At the price he's payin', he'll be 
everybody's best friend. And, you know, that's what we're talkin' about 
here. I'm not puttin' him down. Hey, let him run wild. Have a ball, it's 
his money. But, don't expect me to hang around forever waitin' for you guys 
to grow some guts.












of you during the week I gotta talk to you on Sunday? Why is it you always 
call me when I'm on the windiest street in L.A.?












I'm talking about, Lee?

































































from Detroit. Clarence Worley? I heard he was in town. Might be travelling 
with a pretty girl named Alabama. Have you seen him? Are they stayin' here?



stayin' at the Hollywood Holiday Inn.






easy to remember.











L.A. And I want you to distribute it.















lot of film. A man'd have ta be an idiot not to be a little cautious about 
a movie like that. And Lee, you're no idiot.










all about. I'm a film producer, I'm on this world to make good movies. 
Nothing more. Now, having my big toe dipped into the distribution end helps 
me on many levels.






distributers I deal with. I buy their little movies. Accomplish what I 
wanna accomplish, end of story. Easy, business-like, very little risk.







it's a risk. I'm not sellin' you something that's gonna play two weeks, six 
weeks, then go straight to cable. This is "Doctor Zhivago". This'll be 
packin' 'em in for a year and a half. Two years! That's two years you don't 
have to work with anybody's movie but mine.










in arbitration?






courtship, Lee, I would. I'd take ya out, I'd hold your hand, I'd kiss you 
on the cheek at the door. But, I'm not in that position. I need to know if 
we're in bed together, or not. If you want my movie, Lee, you're just gonna 
have to come to terms with your Fear and Desire.



























everybody there.


do business. If not, he'll say fuck it and walk out the door. He also wants 
a sample bag.


























my part OK?









I'm gonna go grab dinner.



gonna lie in the waterbed, not even both to dry off, and watch X-rated 
movies till you get your ass back to my lovin' arms.








































but there's a Pepsi machine downstairs. I don't know any Clarence, but 
maybe my husband does. You might have heard of him, he plays football. Al 
Lylezado. He'll be home any minute, you can ask him.
















Vistavision and Cinema,
Everything about it is a must,
To get to Hollywood, or bust..."








third-degree blackbelt, you know? At home I got trophies. Tournaments I was  
in. Kicked all kinds of ass. I got great technique. You ain't hurt that  
bad. Get on your feet, Fruitloop.

























you guys got?








large Diet Cokes.


well.








on, cunt. You're nothin' but a fuckin' fool. And your pretty face is gonna  
turn awful goddamn ugly in about two seconds. Now, where's my fuckin' coke?









































I look at the price and say forget it, it's just gonna be the same old  
shit. I ended up breaking down and buying it a few days later. Man, I was  
ever wrong.








covers the whole spectrum of fans, the people who love his music, the  
people who grew up with him, the artists he inspired - Bob Dylan, Bruce  
Springsteen, and the fanatics, like these guys. I don't know about you, but  
they give me the creeps.






branch on the way down. Elvis wouldn't fuck her with Pat Boone's dick.










the Boston Strangler or Wyatt Earp. You can bet that Texas boy, Charles  
Whitman, the fella who shot all them guys from that tower, I'll bet you  
green money that that first little black dot that he took a bead on, was  
the bitch of the bunch. No foolin' the first one's a tough row to hoe. Now,  
the second one, while it ain't no Mardi Gras, it ain't half as tough row to  
hoe. You still feel somethin' but it's just so deluted this time around.  
Then you completely level off on the third one. The third one's easy. It's  
gotten to the point now I'll do it just to watch their expressions change.







One less thing I gotta worry about.



















that for people I like.













































laughing now?



















































where there is hatred, let me sow love;
where there is injury, pardon;
where there is doubt, faith;
where there is despair, hope;
where there is darkness, light;
and where there is sadness, joy.
O Divine Master, grant that I may not
so much seek to be consoled as to console;
to be understood as to understand;
to be loved as to love;
for it is in giving that we receive,
it is pardoning that we are pardoned,
and it is in dying that we are born
to eternal life.





























this. I'm so sorry. Sleep my angel. Sleep peacefully.


















shit out of her. She never told him where I was. It's like I always felt  
that the way she felt about me was a mistake. She couldn't really care that  
much. I always felt in the back of my mind, I don't know, she was jokin'.  
But, to go through that and remain loyal, it's very easy to be unraptured  
with words, but to remain loyal when it's easier, even excusable, not to -  
that's a test of oneself. That's a true romance. I swear to God, I'll cut  
off my hands and gouge out my eyes before I'll every let anything happen to  
that lady again.




















like this!








































































we gotcha. OK, Mr. Elliot actor, you've just made the big time -












nightly for the next two fuckin' years for a captive audience -



who gets fucked in the ass on a daily basis by throat-slitting niggers,  
you'll have so much experience to draw on -



married, and you'll be so understanding to your wife's needs, because  
you'll know what it's like to be a woman.



anymore -



















fallin' into somethin'. You shoulda seen it, it was beautiful. Dimes is  
hittin' him from the left about being fucked in the ass by niggers, I'm  
hittin' him form the right about not likin' pussy anymore, finally he  
starts  cryin', and then it was all over -



and if I say we, I don't mean me and him, I'm referring to the whole  
department. Haven't had a decent bust this whole month. Well, we mighta  
come in like a lamb, but we're goin' out like a lion -



what's going on, and what are you talking about?



speeding, they walk up to window and the guy's covered in coke. So they  
bring his ass in and me an' Nicholson go to work on him.






Denmark, 'cause this dickhead had a big bag, and it's uncut, too, so we're  
sweatin' him, trying to find out where he got it. Scarin' the shit outta  
him.






ain't gonna fuckin' believe it.










Cardella, who Virgil was supposed to leave my narcotics with, he never  
shows. Now, children, somebody is stickin' a red-hot poker up my asshole  
and what I don't know is whose hand's on the handle.






after that incident in Ann Arbor, I trust Virgil.






three.



personally, he's OK.








million dollars of coke from the property cage and he's been sittin' on it  
for a year and a half. Now the cops got this weirdo -






boss, a big movie producer named Lee Donowitz.
























and Anna and the King of Siam if he had anything on him.















department, the L.A. Thunderbirds, the ghost of Steve McQueen, and the  
twelve Roman gladiators, so long as we get credit for the bust.



we found it, so we want the fuckin' collar.








off, and Cardella decides to open up his own fruit stand.

















you were in your daddy's nutsack. What sun do you walk under you can throw  
a shadow on Nick Cardella? Nick Cardella's a stand-up guy.



her wack-a-doo cowboy boyfriend out-aped Virgil. Knowing Virgil, I find  
that hard to believe. But they sent Drexl to hell, and Drexl was no faggot.  
So you see, children, I got a lot of questions and no answers. Find out who  
this wing-and-a-prayer artist is and take him off at the neck.






















surrounded by airplanes when you ain't got shit. I hated where I was, but I  
couldn't do anythin' about it. I didn't have enough money. It was tough  
enough just tryin' to pay my rent every month, an' here I was livin' next  
to an airport. Whenever I went outside, I saw fuckin' planes take off  
drownin' out my show. All day long I'm seein', hearin' people doin' what I  
wanted to do most, but couldn't.






trips. Fun, fun, fun, fun.





love airports now. Me 'n' you can get on any one of those planes out there,  
and go anywhere we ant.



we can really start from scatch.



other countries is like. Besides, it's more dramatic. Where should we fly  
off to, my little turtledove?









Go to Cancoon". Don't 'cha think?








it.







































































Peter Breck are the two heavies. We start shooting Monday. My call is for  
seven o'clock in the morning.



















































It is the east and Juliet is the sun.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Who is already sick and pale with grief -"





Clear as a bell.











put your boss in jail.






































hurled the ball when I'm not looking. Wam! Right in my face.








































week has taught me, it's better to have a gun and not to need it than to  
need a gun and not to have it.





What say we forget the whole thing.








about it. How 'bout you, Bama?






don't want you guys to go to jail. We don't know what could be waiting for  
us up there. It'll probably be just what it's supposed to be. The only  
thing that's waiting for us is two hundred thousand dollars. I'm just  
looking at the downside.






of getting caught.











outta here.








away. I'm gonna be kicking myself in the ass for the rest of my life if I  
don't go in there. Lee Donowitz isn't a gangster lookin' to skin us, and  
he's not a cop, he's a famous movie producer lookin' to get high. And I'm  
just the man who can get him there. So what say we throw caution to the  
wind and let the chips fall where they may.











To everyone he meets
he stays a stranger.
Be careful what you say,
you'll give yourself away...









to see tomorrow,
secret agent man,
secret agent man....















































































































motherfucker in the world! Don't you? Say: Clarence, you are without a  
doubt, the dumbest motherfucker in the whole wide world. Say it!































face.








show must go on.
















tell me what's waiting for us up there. Something's amiss. I can feel it.  
If anything out of the ordinary goes down, believe this, you're gonna be  
the first one shot. Trust me, I am AIDS, you fuck with me, you die. Now  
quit making me mad and tell me why I'm so fucking nervous.































get me 'cause I don't like this. This is not what I thought it would be.  
And I wish somebody would just take me away. Just take me away Come and get  
me. 'Cause I don't like this anymore. I can't take this. I'm sorry but I  
just can't. So, if somebody would just come to my rescue, everything would  
be alright.

















I'm sure. I really apologize for scaring you so bad, but believe me, I'm  
just as scared as you. Friends?

































































































Alabama.










of Fortune" poster boys made me a bit nervous. But, Lee, I'm fairly  
confident that you came here to do business, not to be a wise-guy. So, if  
you want, I'll put the gun on the table.



you be nice and get coffee for everybody.











my favorite movies. After "Apocalypse Now" I think it's the best Vietnam  
movie ever.






Choice", "Ordinary People", "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Gandhi". All that stuff  
is safe, geriatric, coffee-table dog shit.






movies from unreadable books.





I do, but I wouldn't count on it.





films. And do you know what films are? They're for people who don't like  
movies. "Mad Max", that's a movie. "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly",  
that's a movie. "Rio Bravo", that's a movie. "Rumble Fish", that's a  
fuckin' movie. And, "Coming Home in a Body Bag", that's a movie. It was the  
first movie with balls to win a lot of Oscars since the "The Deer Hunter".










Yorker"?








in a Body Bag" and thought it was the most accurate Vietnam film they'd  
ever seen.



makes the whole project worthwhile. Clarence, my friend, and I call you my  
friend because we have similar interests, let's take a look at what you  
have for me.
















































helluva lot more.




















Boris make anybody a sandwich? I got all kinds of sandwich shit from  
Canters in there.









that made me a little sick.


















that's too good to be true, it's because it's a lie. Convince me you're on  
the level.



















I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. You're used to dealin' with  
professionals. I'm not a professional. I'm a rank amateur. I could take  
that, and I could cut it, and I could sell it a little bit at a time, and  
make a helluva lot more money. But, in order to do that, I'd have to become  
a drug dealer. Deal with cut-throat junkies, killers, worry about getting  
busted all of the time. Just meeting you here today scares the shit outta  
me, and you're not a junkie, a killer or a cop, you're a fucking  
movie-maker. I like you, and I'm still scared. I'm a punk kid who picked up  
a rock in the street, only to find out it's the Hope Diamond. It's worth a  
million dollars, but I can't get the million dollars for it. But, you can.  
So, I'll sell it to you for a couple a hundred thousand. You go to make a  
million. It's all found money to me anyway. Me and my wife are minimum wage  
kids, two hundred thousand is the world.








you. In my book, buddy, you're a piece of shit.


it.

















room and get the money.









































work in?
























































have to".



I just opened my mouth and it came out. After I said it I thought, that's a  
cool line, I gotta remember that.





























it! Now get on the floor!















want it, and you don't want it.







































kissin' his ass.






he can see that.


























settle it by yourselves?







fuckin' little piece of shit!









years 'cause your career is over as of now! You might as weel burn your SAG  
card! To think I treated you as a son! And you stabbed me in the heart!


































































































































sorry.












































on the floor or die like all you friends.















again. Please, just let me get to "T.J. Hooker" on Monday.















































You! Stop!














She carried a sawed-off shotgun in her purse, a black belt around her  
waist, and the white-hot fire of hate in her eyes! Alabama Whitman is Pam  
Grier! Pray for forgiveness, Rated R... for Ruthless Revenge!




































to take me to Kilimanjaro and... and a million bucks!















away. This is not my fault. I did not do this. You did this one hundred 
percent to yourself. I'm not gonna give you the satisfaction of feeling 
bad. I should laugh 'cause you don't deserve any better. I could get 
another guy like that. I'm hot lookin'. What are you? Dead! Dumb jerk. 
Asshole. You're a asshole, you're a asshole, you're a asshole. You wanted 
it all, didn't ya? Didn't ya? Well watcha got now? You ain't got the money. 
You ain't got me. You ain't even got your body anymore. You got nothin'. 
Nada. Zip. Goose egg. Nil. Donut.





















Screenplay by Quentin Tarantino

Produced by Samuel Hadida
Steve Perry
Bill Unger

Directed by Tony Scott

Cast List:

Christian Slater Clarence Worley
Patricia Arquette Alabama Whitman
Dennis Hopper Clifford Worley
Michael Rapaport Dick Ritchie
Bronson Pinchott Elliot Blitzer
Christopher Walken Vincenzo Coccotti
Saul Rubinek Lee Donowitz
Samuel L. Jackson Big Don
Brad Pitt Floyd
Val Kilmer Elvis (Mentor)


Typed with two bare fingers by Niki Wurster
Removed from zip format and formatted in text format by Kale Whorton.


Formatted in HTML by Dabrast Caustic






